------: One of the simplest essential parts, more commonly calledcells, of which animal and vegetable organisms, or their tissues andorgans, are composed.
-ably: A suffix composed of -able and the adverbial suffix -ly; as,favorably.
-ana: A suffix to names of persons or places, used to denote acollection of notable sayings, literary gossip, anecdotes, etc. Thus,Scaligerana is a book containing the sayings of Scaliger, Johnsonianaof Johnson, etc.
-ance: A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.
-ancy: A suffix expressing more strongly than -ance the idea ofquality or state; as, constancy, buoyancy, infancy.
-ant: A suffix sometimes marking the agent for action; as, merchant,covenant, servant, pleasant, etc. Cf. -ent.
-arch: A suffix meaning a ruler, as in monarch (a sole ruler).
-ation: A suffix forming nouns of action, and often equivalent to theverbal substantive in -ing. It sometimes has the further meanings ofstate, and that which results from the action. Many of these nounshave verbs in -ate; as, alliterate -ation, narrate -ation; many arederived through the French; as, alteration, visitation; and many areformed on verbs ending in the Greek formative -ize (Fr. -ise); as,civilization, demoralization.
-blast: A suffix or terminal formative, used principally in biologicalterms, and signifying growth, formation; as, bioblast, epiblast,mesoblast, etc.
-derm: A suffix or terminal formative, much used in anatomical terms,and signifying skin, integument, covering; as, blastoderm, ectoderm,etc.
-dom: A suffix denoting:(a) Jurisdiction or property and jurisdiction, dominion, as inkingdom earldom.(b) State, condition, or quality of being, as in wisdom, freedom.
-ed: The termination of the past participle of regular, or weak,verbs; also, of analogous participial adjectives from nouns; as,pigmented; talented.
-ee: A suffix used, chiefly in law terms, in a passivesignification, to indicate the direct or indirect object of anaction, or the one to whom an act is done or on whom a right isconferred; as in assignee, donee, alienee, grantee, etc. It iscorrelative to -or, the agent or doer.
-en: An adjectival suffix, meaning made of; as in golden, leaden,wooden.
-ence: A noun suffix signifying action, state, or quality; also, thatwhich relates to the action or state; as in emergence, diffidence,diligence, influence, difference, excellence. See -ance.
-ency: A noun suffix having much the same meaning as -ence, but morecommonly signifying the quality or state; as, emergency, efficiency.See -ancy.
-ent: An adjective suffix signifying action or being; as, corrodent,excellent, emergent, continent, quiescent. See -ant.
-er: .
-escent: A suffix signifying beginning, beginning to be; as, adolescent,effervescent, etc.
-esque: A suffix of certain words from the French, Italian, andSpanish. It denotes manner or style; like; as, arabesque, after themanner of the Arabs.
-ess: A suffix used to form feminine nouns; as, actress, deaconess,songstress.
-est: A suffix used to form the superlative of adjectives andadverbs; as, smoothest; earl(y)iest.
-et: A noun suffix with a diminutive force; as in baronet, pocket,facet, floweret, latchet.
-ferous: A suffix signifying bearing, producing, yielding; as,auriferous, yielding gold; chyliferous, producing chyle.
-ful: A suffix signifying full of, abounding with; as, boastful,harmful, woeful.
-fy: A suffix signifying to make, to form into, etc.; as, acetify,amplify, dandify, Frenchify, etc.
-genous: A suffix signifying producing, yielding; as, alkaligenous;endogenous.
-gerous: A suffix signifying bearing, producing; as, calcigerous;dentigerous.
-gram: A suffix indicating something drawn or written, a drawing,writing; -- as, monogram, telegram, chronogram.
-graph: A suffix signifying something written, a writing; also, awriter; as autograph, crystograph, telegraph, photograph.
-graphy: A suffix denoting the art of writing or describing; also, thewriting or description itself; a treatise; as, calligraphy,biography, geography.
-grave: A final syllable signifying a ruler, as in landgrave, margrave.See Margrave.
-head: A variant of -hood.
-hood: A termination denoting state, condition, quality, character,totality, as in manhood, childhood, knighthood, brotherhood.Sometimes it is written, chiefly in obsolete words, in the form -head.
-ible: . See -able.
-ic: A suffix, denoting that the element indicated enters intocertain compounds with its highest valence, or with a valencerelatively higher than in compounds where the name of the elementends in -ous; as, ferric, sulphuric. It is also used in the generalsense of pertaining to; as, hydric, sodic, calcic.
-ics: . A suffix used in forming the names of certain sciences,systems, etc., as acoustics, mathematics, dynamics, statistics,politics, athletics.
-ide: A suffix used to denote
-in: A suffix. See the Note under -ine.
-ine: A suffix, indicating that those substances of whose names it isa part are basic, and alkaloidal in their nature.
-ing: A suffix used to from present participles; as, singing,playing.
-ion: A noun suffix denoting act, process, result of an act or aprocess, thing acted upon, state, or condition; as, revolution, theact or process of revolving; construction, the act or process ofconstructing; a thing constructed; dominion, territory ruled over;subjection, state of being subject; dejection; abstraction.
-ise: . See -ize.
-ish: A suffix used to from adjectives from nouns and fromadjectives. It denotes relation, resemblance, similarity, andsometimes has a diminutive force; as, selfish, boyish, brutish;whitish, somewhat white.
-ism: A suffix indicating an act, a process, the result of an act ora process, a state; also, a characteristic (as a theory, doctrine,idiom, etc.); as, baptism, galvanism, organism, hypnotism, socialism,sensualism, Anglicism.
-ist: A noun suffix denoting an agent, or doer, one who practices, abeliever in; as, theorist, one who theorizes; socialist, one whoholds to socialism; sensualist, one given to sensuality.
-ite: A suffix used to denote the salts formed from those acids whosenames end in -ous; as, sulphite, from sulphurous; nitrite, fromnitrous acid, etc.
-itis: A suffix used in medical terms to denote an inflammatorydisease of; as, arthritis; bronchitis, phrenitis.
-ive: An adjective suffix signifying relating or belonging to, of thenature of, tending to; as affirmative, active, conclusive,corrective, diminutive.
-ize: A verb suffix signifying to make, to do, to practice; asapologize, baptize, theorize, tyrannize.
-kin: A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.
-less: A privative adjective suffix, denoting without, destitute of,not having; as witless, childless, fatherless.
-let: A noun suffix having a diminutive force; as in streamlet,armlet.
-ling: A noun suffix, commonly having a diminutive or a depreciatoryforce; as in duck-ling, dosling, hireling, fosterling, firstling,underling.
-logy: A combining form denoting a discourse, treatise, doctrine,theory, science; as, theology, geology, biology, mineralogy.
-ly: A suffix forming adjectives and adverbs, and denoting likenessor resemblance.
-mancy: A combining form denoting divination; as, aleuromancy,chiromancy, necromancy, etc.
-ment: A suffix denoting that which does a thing; an act or process;the result of an act or process; state or condition; as, aliment,that which nourishes, ornament, increment; fragment, piece broken,segment; abridgment, act of abridging, imprisonment, movement,adjournment; amazement, state of being amazed, astonishment.
-mere: A combining form meaning part, portion; as, blastomere,epimere.
-meter: A suffix denoting that by which anything is measured; as,barometer, chronometer, dynamometer.
-metry: A suffix denoting the art, process, or science, of measuring;as, acidmetry, chlorometry, chronometry.
-mo: A suffix added to the names of certain numerals or to thenumerals themselves, to indicate the number of leaves made by foldinga sheet of paper; as, sixteenmo or 16mo; eighteenmo or 18mo. It istaken from the Latin forms similarly used; as, duodecimo,sextodecimo, etc. A small circle, placed after the number and nearits top, is often used for -mo; as, 16°, 18°, etc.
-morphous: A combining form denoting form, shape; as, isomorphous.
-ness: A suffix used to form abstract nouns expressive of quality orstate; as, goodness, greatness.
-ock: A suffix used to form diminutives; as, bullock, hillock.
-oid: A suffix or combining form meaning like, resembling, in theform of; as in anthropoid, asteroid, spheroid.
-ol: A suffix denoting that the substance in the name of which itappears belongs to the series of alcohols or hydroxyl derivatives, ascarbinol, glycerol, etc.
-oma: A suffix used in medical terms to denote a morbid condition ofsome part, usually some kind of tumor; as in fibroma, glaucoma.
-one: A suffix indicating that the substance, in the name of which itappears, is a ketone; as, acetone.
-ory: A noun suffix denoting that which pertains to, or serves for;as in ambulatory, that which serves for walking; consistory, factory,etc.
-ose: A suffix indicating that the substance to the name of wich itis affixed is a member of the carbohydrate group; as in cellulose,sucrose, dextrose, etc.
-our: See -or.
-ous: A suffix denoting that the element indicated by the namebearing it, has a valence lower than that denoted by the termination-ic; as, nitrous, sulphurous, etc., as contrasted with nitric,sulphuric, etc.
-plastic: A combining form signifying developing, forming, growing; as,heteroplastic, monoplastic, polyplastic.
-plasty: A combining form denoting the act or process of forming,development, growth; as, autoplasty, perineoplasty.
-pod: A combining form or suffix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as,decapod, an animal having ten feet; phyllopod, an animal havingleaflike feet; myriapod, hexapod.
-poda: A New Latin plural combining form or suffix from Gr. foot; as,hexapoda, myriapoda. See -pod.
-ric: A suffix signifying dominion, jurisdiction; as, bishopric, thedistrict over which a bishop exercises authority.
-s: The suffix used to form the plural of most words; as in roads,elfs, sides, accounts.
-scope: A combining form usually signifying an instrument for viewing(with the eye) or observing (in any way); as in microscope,telescope, altoscope, anemoscope.
-ship: A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art;as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship,horsemanship.
-some: A combining form or suffix from Gr. sw^ma (gen. sw`matos) thebody; as in merosome, a body segment; cephalosome, etc.
-ster: A suffix denoting the agent (originally a woman), especially aperson who does something with skill or as an occupation; as inspinster (originally, a woman who spins), songster, baxter (=bakester), youngster.
-type: A combining form signifying impressed form; stamp; print; type;typical form; representative; as in stereotype phototype, ferrotype,monotype.
-uret: A suffix with the same meaning as -ide. See -ide. [Obs.]
-wards: See -ward.
-ways: A suffix formed from way by the addition of the adverbial -s(see -wards). It is often used interchangeably with wise; as, endwaysor endwise; noways or nowise, etc.
-yl: A suffix used as a characteristic termination of chemicalradicals; as in ethyl, carbonyl, hydroxyl, etc.
a: The first letter of the English and of many other alphabets.The capital A of the alphabets of Middle and Western Europe, as alsothe small letter (a), besides the forms in Italic, black letter,etc., are all descended from the old Latin A, which was borrowed fromthe Greek Alpha, of the same form; and this was made from the firstletter (Aleph, and itself from the Egyptian origin. The Aleph was aconsonant letter, with a guttural breath sound that was not anelement of Greek articulation; and the Greeks took it to representtheir vowel Alpha with the ä sound, the Phoenician alphabet having novowel symbols. This letter, in English, is used for several differentvowel sounds. See Guide to pronunciation, §§ 43-74. The regular longa, as in fate, etc., is a comparatively modern sound, and has takenthe place of what, till about the early part of the 17th century, wasa sound of the quality of ä (as in far).
a cheval: Astride; with a part on each side; -- used specif. indesignating the position of an army with the wings separated by someline of demarcation, as a river or road.
a fortiori: With stronger reason.
a mensa et thoro: A kind of divorce which does not dissolve the marriage bond,but merely authorizes a separate life of the husband and wife.Abbott.
a posteriori: Characterizing that kind of reasoning which derivespropositions from the observation of facts, or by generalizationsfrom facts arrives at principles and definitions, or infers causesfrom effects. This is the reverse of a priori reasoning.
a priori: Characterizing that kind of reasoning which deducesconsequences from definitions formed, or principles assumed, or whichinfers effects from causes previously known; deductive ordeductively. The reverse of a posteriori.
a-: A, as a prefix to English words, is derived from varioussources. (1) It frequently signifies on or in (from an, a forms ofAS. on), denoting a state, as in afoot, on foot, abed, amiss, asleep,aground, aloft, away (AS. onweg), and analogically, ablaze, atremble,etc. (2) AS. of off, from, as in adown (AS. ofdüne off the dun orhill). (3) AS. a- (Goth. us-, ur-, Ger. er-), usually giving anintensive force, and sometimes the sense of away, on, back, as inarise, abide, ago. (4) Old English y- or i- (corrupted from the AS.inseparable particle ge-, cognate with OHG. ga-, gi-, Goth. ga-),which, as a prefix, made no essential addition to the meaning, as inaware. (5) French à (L. ad to), as in abase, achieve. (6) L. a, ab,abs, from, as in avert. (7) Greek insep. prefix a without, orprivative, not, as in abyss, atheist; akin to E. un-.
a-good: In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood." Shak.
a-mornings: In the morning; every morning. [Obs.]And have such pleasant walks into the woods A-mornings. J. Fletcher.
a-sea: On the sea; at sea; toward the sea.
a-tiptoe: On tiptoe; eagerly expecting.We all feel a-tiptoe with hope and confidence. F. Harrison.
aam: A Dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in differentcities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36½, atHamburg 38¼. [Written also Aum and Awm.]
aard-vark: An edentate mammal, of the genus Orycteropus, somewhatresembling a pig, common in some parts of Southern Africa. It burrowsin the ground, and feeds entirely on ants, which it catches with itslong, slimy tongue.
aard-wolf: A carnivorous quadruped (Proteles Lalandii), of South Africa,resembling the fox and hyena. See Proteles.
ab: The fifth month of the Jewish year according to theecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation,coinciding nearly with August. W. Smith.
ab-: A prefix in many words of Latin origin. It signifies from, away, separating, or departure, as in abduct, abstract, abscond. See A-(6).
abaca: The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. SeeManila hemp under Manila.
abacinate: To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes. [R.]
abacination: The act of abacinating. [R.]
abaciscus: One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; anabaculus.
abacist: One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.
aback: Backward against the mast;-said of the sails when pressed bythe wind. Totten. To be taken aback. (a) To be driven backwardagainst the mast; -- said of the sails, also of the ship when thesails are thus driven. (b) To be suddenly checked, baffled, ordiscomfited. Dickens.
abactinal: Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in aradiate animal; -- opposed to actinal. "The aboral or abactinalarea." L. Agassiz.
abaction: Stealing cattle on a large scale. [Obs.]
abactor: One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds ordroves. [Obs.]
abaculus: A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of variouscolors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.Fairholt.
abada: The rhinoceros. [Obs.] Purchas.
abaft: Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse. Abaftthe beam. See under Beam.
abaisance: Obeisance. [Obs.] Jonson.
abaiser: Ivory black or animal charcoal. Weale.
abaist: Abashed; confounded; discomfited. [Obs.] Chaucer.
abalienate: To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.
abalienation: The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement. [Obs.]
abalone: A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis. The shell is linedwith mother-of-pearl, and used for ornamental purposes; the sea-ear.Several large species are found on the coast of California, clingingclosely to the rocks.
abandon: To relinquish all claim to; -- used when an insured persongives up to underwriters all claim to the property covered by apolicy, which may remain after loss or damage by a peril insuredagainst.
abandonedly: Unrestrainedly.
abandonee: One to whom anything is legally abandoned.
abandoner: One who abandons. Beau. & Fl.
abandonment: The relinquishment by the insured to the underwriters of whatmay remain of the property insured after a loss or damage by a perilinsured against.
abandum: Anything forfeited or confiscated.
abanet: See Abnet.
abanga: A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds ofwhich are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
abarticulation: Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits offree motion in the joint; diarthrosis. Coxe.
abased: Borne lower than usual, as a fess; also, having the ends of thewings turned downward towards the point of the shield.
abasedly: Abjectly; downcastly.
abasement: The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state ofbeing abased or humbled; humiliation.
abaser: He who, or that which, abases.
abash: To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, asby exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, orinferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.Abashed, the devil stood, And felt how awful goodness is. Milton.He was a man whom no check could abash. Macaulay.
abashedly: In an abashed manner.
abashment: The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.
abasia: Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. -- A*ba"sic (#), a.
abatable: Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.
abate: (a) To bring entirely down or put an end to; to do away with;as, to abate a nuisance, to abate a writ. (b) (Eng. Law) To diminish;to reduce. Legacies are liable to be abated entirely or inproportion, upon a deficiency of assets. To abate a tax, to remit iteither wholly or in part.
abatement: A mark of dishonor on an escutcheon.
abater: One who, or that which, abates.
abatised: Provided with an abatis.
abator: (a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right,enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before theheir or devisee. Blackstone.
abattoir: A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.
abature: Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passingthrough them. Crabb.
abatvoix: The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.
abawed: Astonished; abashed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
abay: Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay. [Obs.]
abb: Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool forthe abb.
abb wool: See Abb.
abba: Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, andEthiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishopsto the patriarch.
abbacy: The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.
abbatial: Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.
abbatical: Abbatial. [Obs.]
abbe: The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of anabbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every onevested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.
abbess: A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent ofnuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots haveover the monks. See Abbey.
abbotship: The state or office of an abbot.
abbreviate: To reduce to lower terms, as a fraction.
abbreviated: Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.
abbreviation: One dash, or more, through the stem of a note, dividing itrespectively into quavers, semiquavers, or demi-semiquavers. Moore.
abbreviatory: Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.
abdal: A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.
abderian: Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.
abderite: An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace. The Abderite, Democritus,the Laughing Philosopher.
abdest: Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- aMohammedan rite. Heyse.
abdicable: Capable of being abdicated.
abdicant: Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.Monks abdicant of their orders. Whitlock.
abdicate: To disclaim and expel from the family, as a father his child;to disown; to disinherit.
abdication: The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office,dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciationof sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power,authority.
abdicative: Causing, or implying, abdication. [R.] Bailey.
abdicator: One who abdicates.
abditive: Having the quality of hiding. [R.] Bailey.
abditory: A place for hiding or preserving articles of value. Cowell.
abdomen: The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and thepelvis. Also, the cavity of the belly, which is lined by theperitoneum, and contains the stomach, bowels, and other viscera. Inman, often restricted to the part between the diaphragm and thecommencement of the pelvis, the remainder being called the pelviccavity.
abdominal: Having abdominal fins; belonging to the Abdominales; as,abdominal fishes. Abdominal ring (Anat.), a fancied ringlike openingon each side of the abdomen, external and superior to the pubes; --called also inguinal ring.
abdominales: A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, andmany marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behindthe pectorals.
abdominalia: A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.
abdominoscopy: Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.
abdominothoracic: Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.
abdominous: Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.Gorgonius sits, abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinesefan. Cowper.
abduce: To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a differentpart. [Obs.]If we abduce the eye unto either corner, the object will notduplicate. Sir T. Browne.
abduction: The movement which separates a limb or other part from theaxis, or middle line, of the body.
abductor: A muscle which serves to draw a part out, or form the medianline of the body; as, the abductor oculi, which draws the eyeoutward.
abeam: On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle withthe ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.
abearance: Behavior. [Obs.] Blackstone.
abearing: Behavior. [Obs.] Sir. T. More.
abecedarian: Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet;alphabetic; hence, rudimentary. Abecedarian psalms, hymns, etc.,compositions in which (like the 119th psalm in Hebrew) distinctportions or verses commence with successive letters of the alphabet.Hook.
abecedary: A primer; the first principle or rudiment of anything. [R.]Fuller.
abegge: Same as Aby. [Obs.] Chaucer.
abele: The white polar (Populus alba).Six abeles i' the churchyard grow. Mrs. Browning.
abelmosk: An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus-moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whosemusky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimescalled musk mallow.
aber-de-vine: The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green andyellow finch, related to the goldfinch.
aberr: To wander; to stray. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
aberrant: See Aberr.]
aberrate: To go astray; to diverge. [R.]Their own defective and aberrating vision. De Quincey.
aberration: A small periodical change of position in the stars and otherheavenly bodies, due to the combined effect of the motion of lightand the motion of the observer; called annual aberration, when theobserver's motion is that of the earth in its orbit, and dairy ordiurnal aberration, when of the earth on its axis; amounting whengreatest, in the former case, to 20.4'', and in the latter, to 0.3''.Planetary aberration is that due to the motion of light and themotion of the planet relative to the earth.
aberrational: Characterized by aberration.
aberuncate: To weed out. [Obs.] Bailey.
aberuncator: A weeding machine.
abet: To contribute, as an assistant or instigator, to the commissionof an offense.
abetment: The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.
abettal: Abetment. [R.]
abevacuation: A partial evacuation. Mayne.
abeyance: Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.
abeyancy: Abeyance. [R.] Hawthorne.
abeyant: Being in a state of abeyance.
abgeordnetenhaus: See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
abhal: The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.
abhominable: Abominable.
abhominal: Inhuman. [Obs.] Fuller.
abhor: To protest against; to reject solemnly. [Obs.]I utterly abhor, yea, from my soul Refuse you for my judge. Shak.
abhorrence: Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.
abhorrency: Abhorrence. [Obs.] Locke.
abhorrently: With abhorrence.
abhorrer: One who abhors. Hume.
abhorrible: Detestable. [R.]
abib: The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year,corresponding nearly to our April. After the Babylonish captivitythis month was called Nisan. Kitto.
abidance: The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).The Christians had no longer abidance in the holy hill of Palestine.Fuller.A judicious abidance by rules. Helps.
abide: To stand the consequences of; to answer for; to suffer for.Dearly I abide that boast so vain. Milton.
abiding: Continuing; lasting.
abidingly: Permanently. Carlyle.
abies: A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsamfir and the silver fir. The spruces are sometimes also referred tothis genus.
abietene: A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nutpine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.
abietic: Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abieticacid, called also sylvic acid. Watts.
abietinic: Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.
abietite: A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of thecommon silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata). Eng. Cyc.
abigail: A lady's waiting-maid. Pepys.Her abigail reported that Mrs. Gutheridge had a set of night curlsfor sleeping in. Leslie.
abiliment: Habiliment. [Obs.]
ability: The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whetherphysical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity;skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill,resources, etc.; -- in the plural, faculty, talent.Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined tosend relief unto the brethren. Acts xi. 29.Natural abilities are like natural plants, that need pruning bystudy. Bacon.The public men of England, with much of a peculiar kind of ability.Macaulay.
abiogenesis: The supposed origination of living organisms from lifelessmatter; such genesis as does not involve the action of livingparents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposedto biogenesis.I shall call the . . . doctrine that living matter may be produced bynot living matter, the hypothesis of abiogenesis. Huxley, 1870.
abiogenetic: Of or pertaining to abiogenesis. Ab`i*o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
abiogenist: One who believes that life can be produced independently ofantecedent. Huxley.
abiogenous: Produced by spontaneous generation.
abiogeny: Same as Abiogenesis.
abiological: Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.
abirritant: A medicine that diminishes irritation.
abirritate: To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.
abirritation: A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation;debility; want of strength; asthenia.
abirritative: Characterized by abirritation or debility.
abit: 3d sing. pres. of Abide. [Obs.] Chaucer.
abject: To cast off or down; hence, to abase; to degrade; to lower; todebase. [Obs.] Donne.
abjectedness: A very abject or low condition; abjectness. [R.] Boyle.
abjectly: Meanly; servilely.
abjectness: The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.Grew.
abjudge: To take away by judicial decision. [R.]
abjudicate: To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge. [Obs.] Ash.
abjudication: Rejection by judicial sentence. [R.] Knowles.
abjugate: To unyoke. [Obs.] Bailey.
abjunctive: Exceptional. [R.]It is this power which leads on from the accidental and abjunctive tothe universal. I. Taylor.
abjuratory: Containing abjuration.
abjure: To renounce on oath. Bp. Burnet.
abjurement: Renunciation. [R.]
abjurer: One who abjures.
ablactate: To wean. [R.] Bailey.
ablactation: The process of grafting now called inarching, or grafting byapproach.
ablaqueate: To lay bare, as the roots of a tree. [Obs.] Bailey.
ablaqueation: The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to exposethem to the air and water. [Obs.] Evelyn.
ablastemic: Non-germinal.
ablation: Extirpation. Dunglison.
ablatitious: Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force. Sir J. Herschel.
ablative: Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some otherlanguages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal,separation, or taking away.
ablaut: The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicatinga corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation;as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung. Earle.
able: Legally qualified; possessed of legal competence; as, able toinherit or devise property.
able-bodied: Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust."Able-bodied vagrant." Froude.-- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n..
able-minded: Having much intellectual power.-- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n.
ablegate: To send abroad. [Obs.] Bailey.
ablegation: The act of sending abroad. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
ableness: Ability of body or mind; force; vigor. [Obs. or R.]
ablepsy: Blindness. [R.] Urquhart.
abler: comp. of Able.-- A"blest, a.,
abligate: To tie up so as to hinder from. [Obs.]
abligurition: Prodigal expense for food. [Obs.] Bailey.
ablins: Perhaps. [Scot.]
abloom: In or into bloom; in a blooming state. Masson.
ablude: To be unlike; to differ. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
abluent: Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent.-- n. (Med.)
ablush: Blushing; ruddy.
ablution: A small quantity of wine and water, which is used to wash thepriest's thumb and index finger after the communion, and which then,as perhaps containing portions of the consecrated elements, is drunkby the priest.
ablutionary: Pertaining to ablution.
abluvion: That which is washed off. [R.] Dwight.
ably: In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned,said.
abnegate: To deny and reject; to abjure. Sir E. Sandys. Farrar.
abnegation: a denial; a renunciation.With abnegation of God, of his honor, and of religion, they mayretain the friendship of the court. Knox.
abnegative: Denying; renouncing; negative. [R.] Clarke.
abnegator: One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything. [R.]
abnet: The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
abnodate: To clear (tress) from knots. [R.] Blount.
abnodation: The act of cutting away the knots of trees. [R.] Crabb.
abnormal: Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type;anomalous; irregular. "That deviating from the type; anomalous;irregular. " Froude.
abnormally: In an abnormal manner; irregularly. Darwin.
abnormity: Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity."An abnormity . . . like a calf born with two heads." Mrs. Whitney.
abnormous: Abnormal; irregular. Hallam.A character of a more abnormous cast than his equally suspectedcoadjutor. State Trials.
aboard: On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or withina railway car.
abodance: An omen; a portending. [Obs.]
abode: of Abide.
abodement: A foreboding; an omen. [Obs.] "Abodements must not now affrightus." Shak.
aboding: A foreboding. [Obs.]
abolishable: Capable of being abolished.
abolisher: One who abolishes.
abolishment: The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction. Hooker.
abolition: The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; anannulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition ofslavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees,ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.
abolitionism: The principles or measures of abolitionists. Wilberforce.
abolitionist: A person who favors the abolition of any institution,especially negro slavery.
abolitionize: To imbue with the principles of abolitionism. [R.] Bartlett.
aboma: A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).
abominableness: The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness. Bentley.
abominably: In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.
abominate: To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, asif with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.
aboon: and adv. Above. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]Aboon the pass of Bally-Brough. Sir W. Scott.The ceiling fair that rose aboon. J. R. Drake.
aboral: Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.
abord: Manner of approaching or accosting; address. Chesterfield.
aboriginality: The quality of being aboriginal. Westm. Rev.
aboriginally: Primarily.
aborsement: Abortment; abortion. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
aborsive: Abortive. [Obs.] Fuller.
abort: To become checked in normal development, so as either to remainrudimentary or shrink away wholly; to become sterile.
aborted: Rendered abortive or sterile; undeveloped; checked in normaldevelopment at a very early stage; as, spines are aborted branches.The eyes of the cirripeds are more or less aborted in their maturestate. Owen.
aborticide: The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.
abortifacient: Producing miscarriage.-- n.
abortion: Arrest of development of any organ, so that it remains animperfect formation or is absorbed.
abortional: Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive. Carlyle.
abortionist: One who procures abortion or miscarriage.
abortive: Imperfectly formed or developed; rudimentary; sterile; as, anabortive organ, stamen, ovule, etc.
abortively: In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.
abortiveness: The quality of being abortive.
abortment: Abortion. [Obs.]
abought: of Aby. [Obs.]
about: On the point or verge of; going; in act of.Paul was now aboutto open his mouth. Acts xviii. 14.
about-sledge: The largest hammer used by smiths. Weale.
above-cited: Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.
aboveboard: Above the board or table. Hence
abovedeck: On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice. Smart.
abovesaid: Mentioned or recited before.
abox: Braced aback.
abra: A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of acañon. [Southwestern U. S.]
abracadabra: A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in thefigure. Worn on an amulet it was supposed to ward off fever. Atpresent the word is used chiefly in jest to denote something withoutmeaning; jargon.
abradant: A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass,etc.
abrade: To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, toabrade rocks. Lyell.
abrahamic: Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamiccovenant.
abraid: To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.[Obs.] Chaucer.
abranchial: Abranchiate.
abranchiata: A group of annelids, so called because the species composing ithave no special organs of respiration.
abranchiate: Without gills.
abrase: Rubbed smooth. [Obs.] "An abrase table." B. Jonson.
abrasion: A superficial excoriation, with loss of substance under theform of small shreds. Dunglison.
abrasive: Producing abrasion. Ure.
abraxas: A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among theancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.
abray: See Abraid. [Obs.] Spenser.
abreaction: See Catharsis, below.
abreast: Side by side; also, opposite; over against; on a line with thevessel's beam; -- with of.
abregge: See Abridge. [Obs.]
abrenounce: To renounce. [Obs.] "They abrenounce and cast them off."Latimer.
abrenunciation: Absolute renunciation or repudiation. [Obs.]An abrenunciation of that truth which he so long had professed, andstill believed. Fuller.
abreption: A snatching away. [Obs.]
abreuvoir: The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled withmortar. Gwilt.
abricock: See Apricot. [Obs.]
abridger: One who abridges.
abroach: To set abroach; to let out, as liquor; to broach; to tap.[Obs.] Chaucer.
abrogable: Capable of being abrogated.
abrogate: Abrogated; abolished. [Obs.] Latimer.
abrogation: The act of abrogating; repeal by authority. Hume.
abrogative: Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.
abrogator: One who repeals by authority.
abrood: In the act of brooding. [Obs.] Abp. Sancroft.
abrook: To brook; to endure. [Obs.] Shak.
abrupt: Suddenly terminating, as if cut off. Gray.
abruption: A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.Woodward.
abscess: A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organof the body, the result of a morbid process. Cold abscess, an abscessof slow formation, unattended with the pain and heat characteristicof ordinary abscesses, and lasting for years without exhibiting anytendency towards healing; a chronic abscess.
abscession: A separating; removal; also, an abscess. [Obs.] Gauden.Barrough.
abscind: To cut off. [R.] "Two syllables . . . abscinded from the rest."Johnson.
abscision: See Abscission.
absciss: See Abscissa.
abscissa: One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of acurve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.
abscission: A figure of speech employed when a speaker having begun to saya thing stops abruptly
abscond: To hide; to conceal. [Obs.] Bentley.
abscondence: Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding. [R.] Phillips.
absconder: One who absconds.
absent-minded: Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied.-- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ness, n.-- Ab`sent-mind"ed*ly, adv.
absentaneous: Pertaining to absence. [Obs.]
absentation: The act of absenting one's self. Sir W. Hamilton.
absentee: One who absents himself from his country, office, post, orduty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country ordistrict than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irishabsentee. Macaulay.
absenteeism: The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice ofabsenting one's self from the country or district where one's estateis situated.
absenter: One who absents one's self.
absently: In an absent or abstracted manner.
absentment: The state of being absent; withdrawal. [R.] Barrow.
absentness: The quality of being absent-minded. H. Miller.
absey-book: An A-B-C book; a primer. [Obs.] Shak.
absinthate: A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positiveradical.
absinthial: Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.
absinthian: Of the nature of wormwood. "Absinthian bitterness." T.Randolph.
absinthiate: To impregnate with wormwood.
absinthiated: Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.
absinthic: Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.
absinthin: The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium). Watts.
absinthism: The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use ofabsinth.
absinthium: The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitterplant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.
absis: See Apsis.
absist: To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist. [Obs.] Raleigh.
absistence: A standing aloof. [Obs.]
absolute: Pure; unmixed; as, absolute alcohol.
absolutely: In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly;positively.
absoluteness: The quality of being absolute; independence of everythingextraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality;positiveness.
absolution: An acquittal, or sentence of a judge declaring and accusedperson innocent. [Obs.]
absolutism: Doctrine of absolute decrees. Ash.
absolutist: One who believes that it is possible to realize a cognition orconcept of the absolute. Sir. W. Hamilton.
absolutistic: Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.
absolutory: Serving to absolve; absolving. "An absolutory sentence."Ayliffe.
absolvable: That may be absolved.
absolvatory: Conferring absolution; absolutory.
absolvent: Absolving. [R.] Carlyle.
absolver: One who absolves. Macaulay.
absonant: Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant. "Absonant tonature." Quarles.
absonous: Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous. [Obs.] "Absonous to ourreason." Glanvill.
absorbability: The state or quality of being absorbable. Graham (Chemistry).
absorbable: Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up. Kerr.
absorbedly: In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.
absorbency: Absorptiveness.
absorbent: Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive. Absorbent ground (Paint.), aground prepared for a picture, chiefly with distemper, or watercolors, by which the oil is absorbed, and a brilliancy is imparted tothe colors.
absorber: One who, or that which, absorbs.
absorbing: Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit.-- Ab*sorb"ing, adv.
absorbition: Absorption. [Obs.]
absorpt: Absorbed. [Arcahic.] "Absorpt in care." Pope.
absorption: An imbibing or reception by molecular or chemical action; as,the absorption of light, heat, electricity, etc.
absorptive: Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe. E.Darwin.
absorptiveness: The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.
absorptivity: Absorptiveness.
absquatulate: To take one's self off; to decamp. [A jocular word. U. S.]
absque hoc: . Etym
abstain: To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily,and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; --with from.Not a few abstained from voting. Macaulay.Who abstains from meat that is not gaunt Shak.
abstainer: One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use ofintoxicating liquors.
abstemiousness: The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in theuse of food and strong drinks. It expresses a greater degree ofabstinence than temperance.
abstention: The act of abstaining; a holding aloof. Jer. Taylor.
abstentious: Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining. Farrar.
absterge: To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, topurge. [R.] Quincy.
abstergent: Serving to cleanse, detergent.
absterse: To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
abstersion: Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.The task of ablution and abstersion being performed. Sir W. Scott.
abstersive: Cleansing; purging. Bacon.
abstersiveness: The quality of being abstersive. Fuller.
abstinency: Abstinence. [R.]
abstinent: Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence ofappetite; abstemious; continent; temperate. Beau. & Fl.
abstinently: With abstinence.
abstorted: Wrested away. [Obs.] Bailey.
abstract: To separate, as the more volatile or soluble parts of asubstance, by distillation or other chemical processes. In this senseextract is now more generally used.
abstractedly: In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.
abstractedness: The state of being abstracted; abstract character.
abstracter: One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.
abstraction: The act process of leaving out of consideration one or moreproperties of a complex object so as to attend to others; analysis.Thus, when the mind considers the form of a tree by itself, or thecolor of the leaves as separate from their size or figure, the act iscalled abstraction. So, also, when it considers whiteness, softness,virtue, existence, as separate from any particular objects.
abstractional: Pertaining to abstraction.
abstractionist: An idealist. Emerson.
abstractitious: Obtained from plants by distillation. [Obs.] Crabb.
abstractive: Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature. "Theabstractive faculty." I. Taylor.
abstractively: In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself. Feltham.
abstractiveness: The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.
abstractly: In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; byitself; as, matter abstractly considered.
abstractness: The quality of being abstract. "The abstractness of the ideas."Locke.
abstringe: To unbind. [Obs.] Bailey.
abstrude: To thrust away. [Obs.] Johnson.
abstrusely: In an abstruse manner.
abstruseness: The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.Boyle.
abstrusion: The act of thrusting away. [R.] Ogilvie.
abstrusity: Abstruseness; that which is abstruse. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
absume: To consume gradually; to waste away. [Obs.] Boyle.
absumption: Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
absurd: Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposedto manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of commonsense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, anabsurd person, an absurd opinion; an absurd dream.This proffer is absurd and reasonless. Shak.'This phrase absurd to call a villain great. Pope.p. 9
absurdly: In an absurd manner.
absurdness: Absurdity. [R.]
abuna: The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.
abundance: An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty;profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth
abundant: Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed byin, rarely by with. "Abundant in goodness and truth." Exod. xxxiv. 6.Abundant number (Math.), a number, the sum of whose aliquot partsexceeds the number itself. Thus, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, the aliquot parts of12, make the number 16. This is opposed to a deficient number, as 14,whose aliquot parts are 1, 2, 7, the sum of which is 10; and to aperfect number, which is equal to the sum of its aliquot parts, as 6,whose aliquot parts are 1, 2., 3.
abundantly: In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in largemeasure.
aburst: In a bursting condition.
abusable: That may be abused.
abusage: Abuse. [Obs.] Whately (1634).
abuseful: Full of abuse; abusive. [R.] "Abuseful names." Bp. Barlow.
abuser: One who abuses [in the various senses of the verb].
abusion: Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception;cheat. Chaucer.
abusively: In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.
abusiveness: The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violenceto the person.Pick out mirth, like stones out of thy ground, Profaneness,filthiness, abusiveness. Herbert.
abut: To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet;-- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.
abutilon: A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in thetorrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indianmallow.
abuttal: The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; aheadland. Spelman.
abutter: One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of acontiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.
abuzz: In a buzz; buzzing. [Colloq.] Dickens.
abysm: An abyss; a gulf. "The abysm of hell." Shak.
abysmal: Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending;profound.Geology gives one the same abysmal extent of time that astronomy doesof space. Carlyle.
abysmally: To a fathomless depth; profoundly. "Abysmally ignorant." G.Eliot.
abyss: The center of an escutcheon.
abyssal: Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable. Abyssalzone (Phys. Geog.), one of the belts or zones into which Sir E.Forbes divides the bottom of the sea in describing its plants,animals, etc. It is the one furthest from the shore, embracing allbeyond one hundred fathoms deep. Hence, abyssal animals, plants, etc.
abyssinian: Of or pertaining to Abyssinia. Abyssinian gold, an alloy of90.74 parts of copper and 8.33 parts of zink. Ure.
acacia: A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors,as a memento of mortality. It is represented on medals.
academe: An academy. [Poetic] Shak.
academial: Academic. [R.]
academian: A member of an academy, university, or college.
academically: In an academical manner.
academicals: The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges anduniversities.
academism: The doctrines of the Academic philosophy. [Obs.] Baxter.
acadian: Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. "Acadian farmers."Longfellow.-- n.
acajou: One of the Acalephæ.
acalephae: A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusæ or jellyfishes,and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess.Sometimes called sea nettles.
acalephoid: Belonging to or resembling the Acalephæ or jellyfishes.
acanth: Same as Acanthus.
acantha: A prickle.
acanthaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe acanthus is the type.
acanthine: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.
acanthocarpous: Having the fruit covered with spines.
acanthocephala: A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed withrecurved spines.
acanthocephalous: Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.
acanthophorous: Spine-bearing. Gray.
acanthopodious: Having spinous petioles.
acanthopteri: A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. SeeAcanthopterygii.
acanthopterous: Spiny-winged.
acanthopterygian: Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as theperch.-- n.
acanthopterygii: An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal,ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.
acanthopterygious: Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny-finned.
acanthus: A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south ofEurope, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.
acapsular: Having no capsule.
acardiac: Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.
acaridan: One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.
acarina: The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks. Manyspecies are parasitic, and cause diseases like the itch and mange.
acarine: Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.
acaroid: Shaped like or resembling a mite.
acarpellous: Having no carpels.
acarpous: Not producing fruit; unfruitful.
acarus: A genus including many species of small mites.
acatalectic: Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse.-- n.
acatalepsy: Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancientSkeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts tocertainty, but only to probability.
acataleptic: Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.
acater: See Caterer. [Obs.]
acates: See Cates. [Obs.]
acaudate: Tailless.
acaulescent: Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed inthe ground. Gray.
acauline: Same as Acaulescent.
accadian: Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia beforethe Assyrian conquest.-- Ac*ca"di*an, n., Ac"cad, n. Sayce.
accedence: The act of acceding.
acceder: One who accedes.
accelerando: Gradually accelerating the movement.
acceleration: The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated;increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward theearth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.A period of social improvement, or of intellectual advancement,contains within itself a principle of acceleration. I. Taylor.(Astr. & Physics.) Acceleration of the moon, the increase of themoon's mean motion in its orbit, in consequence of which its periodof revolution is now shorter than in ancient times.-- Acceleration and retardation of the tides. See Priming of thetides, under Priming.-- Diurnal acceleration of the fixed stars, the amount by whichtheir apparent diurnal motion exceeds that of the sun, in consequenceof which they daily come to the meridian of any place about threeminutes fifty-six seconds of solar time earlier than on the daypreceding.-- Acceleration of the planets, the increasing velocity of theirmotion, in proceeding from the apogee to the perigee of their orbits.
accelerative: Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening. Reid.
accelerator: One who, or that which, accelerates. Also as an adj.; as,accelerator nerves.
acceleratory: Accelerative.
accelerograph: An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns,etc.
accelerometer: An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.
accend: To set on fire; to kindle. [Obs.] Fotherby.
accendibility: Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed;inflammability.
accendible: Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.Ure.
accension: The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.Locke.
accensor: One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.
accent: Stress laid on certain syllables of a verse.
accentless: Without accent.
accentor: One who sings the leading part; the director or leader. [Obs.]
accentuable: Capable of being accented.
accentual: Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.
accentuality: The quality of being accentual.
accentually: In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.
accentuation: Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically(Eccles. Mus.),
accept: To receive as obligatory and promise to pay; as, to accept abill of exchange. Bouvier.
acceptability: The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness. "Acceptabilityof repentance." Jer. Taylor.
acceptable: Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received withpleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as,an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.
acceptableness: The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorablyreceived; acceptability.
acceptably: In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or givesatisfaction.
acceptance: An agreeing to the action of another, by some act which bindsthe person in law.
acceptancy: Acceptance. [R.]Here's a proof of gift, But here's no proof, sir, of acceptancy. Mrs.Browning.
acceptant: Accepting; receiving.
acceptedly: In a accepted manner; admittedly.
accepter: An acceptor.
acceptilation: Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation withoutpayment; free remission.
acception: Acceptation; the received meaning. [Obs.]Here the word "baron" is not to be taken in that restrictive sense towhich the modern acception hath confined it. Fuller.Acception of persons or faces (Eccl.), favoritism; partiality. [Obs.]Wyclif.
acceptor: One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.),
accessarily: In the manner of an accessary.
accessariness: The state of being accessary.
accessary: Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp.,uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor. SeeAccessory.To both their deaths thou shalt be accessary. Shak.Amongst many secondary and accessary causes that support monarchy,these are not of least reckoning. Milton.
accessibility: The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach;receptibility. Langhorne.
accessibly: In an accessible manner.
accession: The invasion, approach, or commencement of a disease; a fit orparoxysm.
accessional: Pertaining to accession; additional. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
accessive: Additional.
accessorial: Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency,accessorial guilt.
accessorily: In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.
accessoriness: The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.
accessory: Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way;additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal;contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, whenof persons, usually in a bad sense; as, he was accessory to the riot;accessory sounds in music.
acciaccatura: A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it isprefixed; -- used especially in organ music. Now used as equivalentto the short appoggiatura.
accident: A property attached to a word, but not essential to it, asgender, number, case.
accidental: Those fortuitous effects produced by luminous rays falling oncertain objects so that some parts stand forth in abnormal brightnessand other parts are cast into a deep shadow.
accidentalism: Accidental character or effect. Ruskin.
accidentality: The quality of being accidental; accidentalness. [R.]Coleridge.
accidentally: In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance;unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.
accidentalness: The quality of being accidental; casualness.
accidie: Sloth; torpor. [Obs.] "The sin of accidie." Chaucer.
accipenser: See Acipenser.
accipient: A receiver. [R.] Bailey
accipiter: A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.
accipitral: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.Lowell.
accipitres: The order that includes rapacious birds. They have a hookedbill, and sharp, strongly curved talons. There are three families,represented by the vultures, the falcons or hawks, and the owls.
accipitrine: Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.
accismus: Affected refusal; coyness.
accite: To cite; to summon. [Obs.]Our heralds now accited all that were Endamaged by the Elians.Chapman.
acclaim: To shout applause.
acclaimer: One who acclaims.
acclamation: A representation, in sculpture or on medals, of peopleexpressing joy. Acclamation medals are those on which laudatoryacclamations are recorded. Elmes.
acclamatory: Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.
acclimatable: Capable of being acclimated.
acclimatation: Acclimatization.
acclimate: To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize. J. H.Newman.
acclimatement: Acclimation. [R.]
acclimation: The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, orhabituated to a new climate; acclimatization.
acclimatizable: Capable of being acclimatized.
acclimatization: The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a newclimate, or the state of being so inured. Darwin.
acclimatize: To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which isnatural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strangeclimate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.
acclimature: The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated. [R.]Caldwell.
acclive: Acclivous. [Obs.]
acclivitous: Acclivous. I. Taylor.
acclivity: A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill,considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending;an upward slope; ascent.
acclivous: Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.
accloy: To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; toburden. See Cloy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
accoast: To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost. [Obs.]Whether high towering or accosting low. Spenser.
accoil: To coil together. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
accolade: A brace used to join two or more staves.
accombination: A combining together. [R.]
accommodable: That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree. [R.] I.Watts.
accommodableness: The quality or condition of being accommodable. [R.] Todd.
accommodate: To adapt one's self; to be conformable or adapted. [R.] Boyle.
accommodately: Suitably; fitly. [R.]
accommodateness: Fitness. [R.]
accommodating: Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; asan accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.
accommodator: He who, or that which, accommodates. Warburton.
accompanable: Sociable. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
accompanier: He who, or that which, accompanies. Lamb.
accompaniment: That which accompanies; something that attends as acircumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to theprincipal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.Specifically
accompanist: The performer in music who takes the accompanying part. Busby.
accompany: To perform an accompanying part or parts in a composition.
accompletive: Tending to accomplish. [R.]
accomplice: An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in anoffense, whether a principal or an accessory. "And thou, the cursedaccomplice of his treason." Johnson.
accompliceship: The state of being an accomplice. [R.] Sir H. Taylor.
accomplicity: The act or state of being an accomplice. [R.]
accomplishable: Capable of being accomplished; practicable. Carlyle.
accomplisher: One who accomplishes.
accompt: See Account.
accomptable: See Accountable.
accomptant: See Accountant.
accord: An agreement between parties in controversy, by whichsatisfaction for an injury is stipulated, and which, when executed,bars a suit. Blackstone. With one accord, with unanimity.They rushed with one accord into the theater. Acts xix. 29.
accordance: Agreement; harmony; conformity. "In strict accordance with thelaw." Macaulay.
accordancy: Accordance. [R.] Paley.
accordant: Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; --followed by with or to.Strictly accordant with true morality. Darwin.And now his voice accordant to the string. Coldsmith.
accordantly: In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followedby with or to.
accorder: One who accords, assents, or concedes. [R.]
according: Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious. "This accordingvoice of national wisdom." Burke. "Mind and soul according well."Tennyson.According to him, every person was to be bought. Macaulay.Our zeal should be according to knowledge. Sprat.
accordion: A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones aregenerated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.
accordionist: A player on the accordion.
accordment: Agreement; reconcilement. [Obs.] Gower.
accorporate: To unite; to attach; to incorporate. [Obs.] Milton.
accost: To adjoin; to lie alongside. [Obs.] "The shores which to thesea accost." Spenser.
accostable: Approachable; affable. [R.] Hawthorne.
accosted: Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.
accouchement: Delivery in childbed
accoucheur: A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; anobstetrician.
accoucheuse: A midwife. [Recent] Dunglison.
account book: A book in which accounts are kept. Swift.
accountability: The state of being accountable; liability to be called on torender an account; accountableness. "The awful idea ofaccountability." R. Hall.
accountableness: The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.
accountably: In an accountable manner.
accountancy: The art or employment of an accountant.
accountant: Accountable. [Obs.] Shak.
accountantship: The office or employment of an accountant.
accouple: To join; to couple. [R.]The Englishmen accoupled themselves with the Frenchmen. Hall.
accourage: To encourage. [Obs.]
accourt: To treat courteously; to court. [Obs.] Spenser.
accreditation: The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.
accrementitial: Pertaining to accremention.
accrementition: The process of generation by development of blastema, orfission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect likethe individual from which it proceeds.
accrescence: Continuous growth; an accretion. [R.]The silent accrescence of belief from the unwatched depositions of ageneral, never contradicted hearsy. Coleridge.
accrescent: Growing larger after flowering. Gray.
accrete: To make adhere; to add. Earle.
accretive: Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.Glanvill.
accriminate: To accuse of a crime. [Obs.] -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n. [Obs.]
accroachment: An encroachment; usurpation. [Obs.] Bailey.
accrual: Accrument. [R.]
accrue: Something that accrues; advantage accruing. [Obs.]
accruer: The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.
accrument: The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.Jer. Taylor.
accubation: The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by theancients at meals.
accumb: To recline, as at table. [Obs.] Bailey.
accumbency: The state of being accumbent or reclining. [R.]
accumbent: Lying against anything, as one part of a leaf against anotherleaf. Gray.Accumbent cotyledons have their edges placed against the caulicle.Eaton.
accumber: To encumber. [Obs.] Chaucer.
accumulate: To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together;to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.
accumulation: The concurrence of several titles to the same proof.Accumulation of energy or power, the storing of energy by means ofweights lifted or masses put in motion; electricity stored.-- An accumulation of degrees (Eng. Univ.), the taking of severaltogether, or at smaller intervals than usual or than is allowed bythe rules.
accumulative: Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass;cumulative; additional.-- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ly, adv.-- Ac*cu"mu*la*tive*ness, n.
accumulator: An apparatus by means of which energy or power can be stored,such as the cylinder or tank for storing water for hydraulicelevators, the secondary or storage battery used for accumulating theenergy of electrical charges, etc.
accuracy: The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, thisexemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or toa rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as, thevalue of testimony depends on its accuracy.The professed end [of logic] is to teach men to think, to judge, andto reason, with precision and accuracy. Reid.The accuracy with which the piston fits the sides. Lardner.
accurately: In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error ordefect.
accurateness: The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness;nicety; precision.
accurse: To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; tocurse; to execrate; to anathematize.And the city shall be accursed. Josh. vi. 17.Thro' you, my life will be accurst. Tennyson.
accusable: Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime orfault; blamable; -- with of.
accusal: Accusation. [R.] Byron.
accusant: An accuser. Bp. Hall.
accusatival: Pertaining to the accusative case.
accusative: Applied to the case (as the fourth case of Latin and Greeknouns) which expresses the immediate object on which the action orinfluence of a transitive verb terminates, or the immediate object ofmotion or tendency to, expressed by a preposition. It corresponds tothe objective case in English.
accusatorial: Accusatory.
accusatorially: By way accusation.
accusatory: Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatorylibel. Grote.
accuse: Accusation. [Obs.] Shak.
accused: Charged with offense; as, an accused person.
accusement: Accusation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
accuser: One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.
accusingly: In an accusing manner.
accustom: To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; -- with to.I shall always fear that he who accustoms himself to fraud in littlethings, wants only opportunity to practice it in greater. Adventurer.
accustomable: Habitual; customary; wonted. "Accustomable goodness." Latimer.
accustomably: According to custom; ordinarily; customarily. Latimer.
accustomance: Custom; habitual use. [Obs.] Boyle.
accustomarily: Customarily. [Obs.]
accustomary: Usual; customary. [Archaic] Featley.
accustomedness: Habituation.Accustomedness to sin hardens the heart. Bp. Pearce.
aceldama: The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem,purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master,and therefore called the field of blood. Fig.
acentric: Not centered; without a center.
acephal: One of the Acephala.
acephala: That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalveshells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have noevident head. Formerly the group included the Tunicata, Brachiopoda,and sometimes the Bryozoa. See Mollusca.
acephalan: Same as Acephal.
acephalist: One who acknowledges no head or superior. Dr. Gauden.
acephalocyst: A larval entozoön in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle,or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of manand the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head orvisible organs on the vesicle. These cysts are the immature stages ofcertain tapeworms. Also applied to similar cysts of different origin.
acephalocystic: Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.
acephalous: Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.
acequia: A canal or trench for irrigating land. [Sp. Amer.]
acerate: A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.
acerb: Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharpand harsh.
acerbate: To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.
acerbic: Sour or severe.
acerbitude: Sourness and harshness. [Obs.] Bailey.
aceric: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.Ure.
acerous: Same as Acerose.
acerval: Pertaining to a heap. [Obs.]
acervate: To heap up. [Obs.]
acervation: A heaping up; accumulation. [R.] Johnson.
acervative: Heaped up; tending to heap up.
acervose: Full of heaps. [R.] Bailey.
acervuline: Resembling little heaps.
acescent: Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.Faraday.
acetable: An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint. [Obs.] Holland.
acetabular: Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.
acetabulifera: The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnishedwith cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus;the Dibranchiata. See Cephalopoda.
acetabuliferous: Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, ascuttlefish, etc.
acetabuliform: Shaped like a shallow; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliformcalyx. Gray.
acetabulum: A vinegar cup; socket of the hip bone; a measure of about oneeighth of a pint, etc.
acetal: A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidationof alcohol under the influence of platinum black.
acetaldehyde: Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.
acetamide: A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of anequivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.
acetanilide: A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain;-- called also antifebrine.
acetarious: Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.
acetary: An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear. Grew.
acetate: A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base orpositive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.
acetated: Combined with acetic acid.
acetification: The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting,or of becoming converted, into vinegar.
acetifier: An apparatus for hastening acetification. Knight.
acetify: To convert into acid or vinegar.
acetimeter: An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid invinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.
acetimetry: The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, orthe proportion of acetic acid contained in it. Ure.
acetin: A combination of acetic acid with glycerin. Brande & C.
acetize: To acetify. [R.]
acetol: Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.
acetometer: Same as Acetimeter. Brande & C.
acetone: A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six ofhydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by thedistillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillationof citric acid, starch, sugar, or gum, with quicklime.
acetonic: Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.
acetonuria: Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.
acetophenone: A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by thedry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic andbenzoic acids. It is used as a hypnotic under the name of hypnone.
acetose: Sour like vinegar; acetous.
acetosity: The quality of being acetous; sourness.
acetyl: A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts ofcarbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen. Its hydroxide isacetic acid.
acetylene: A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion oftwo atoms of the former to two of the latter. It is a colorless gas,with a peculiar, unpleasant odor, and is produced for use as anilluminating gas in a number of ways, but chiefly by the action ofwater on calcium carbide. Its light is very brilliant. Watts.
acharnement: Savage fierceness; ferocity.
achate: An agate. [Obs.] Evelyn.
achatina: A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm partsof America and Africa.
achatour: Purveyor; acater. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ache: Continued pain, as distinguished from sudden twinges, orspasmodic pain. "Such an ache in my bones." Shak.
achean: See Achæan, Achaian.
achenial: Pertaining to an achene.
acheron: A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, theinfernal regions themselves. By some of the English poets it wassupposed to be a flaming lake or gulf. Shak.
acherontic: Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy;moribund.
achievable: Capable of being achieved. Barrow.
achievance: Achievement. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
achievement: An escutcheon or ensign armorial; now generally applied to thefuneral shield commonly called hatchment. Cussans.
achiever: One who achieves; a winner.
achillean: Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.
achilous: Without a lip.
aching: That aches; continuously painful. See Ache.-- Ach"ing*ly, adv.The aching heart, the aching head. Longfellow.
achiote: Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.
achlamydate: Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.
achlamydeous: Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.
acholia: Deficiency or want of bile.
acholous: Lacking bile.
achromatic: Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it intoits primary colors.
achromatically: In an achromatic manner.
achromaticity: Achromatism.
achromatin: Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes. W. Flemming.
achromatism: The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatismof a lens; achromaticity. Nichol.
achromatization: The act or process of achromatizing.
achromatize: To deprive of color; to make achromatic.
achromatopsy: Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.
achromatous: Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood.
achromic: Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromicpoint of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is thepoint at which it fails to give any color with iodine.
achronic: See Acronyc.
achroous: Colorless; achromatic.
achylous: Without chyle.
achymous: Without chyme.
acicula: One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of someanimals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.
acicular: Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leavesor crystals; also, having sharp points like needless. A*cic"u*lar*ly,adv.
aciculiform: Needle-shaped; acicular.
aciculite: Needle ore. Brande & C.
acid: One of a class of compounds, generally but not alwaysdistinguished by their sour taste, solubility in water, and reddeningof vegetable blue or violet colors. They are also characterized bythe power of destroying the distinctive properties of alkalies orbases, combining with them to form salts, at the same time losingtheir own peculiar properties. They all contain hydrogen, united witha more negative element or radical, either alone, or more generallywith oxygen, and take their names from this negative element orradical. Those which contain no oxygen are sometimes called hydracidsin distinction from the others which are called oxygen acids oroxacids.
acid process: That variety of either the Bessemer or the open-hearth processin which the converter or hearth is lined with acid, that is, highlysiliceous, material. Opposed to basic process.
acidic: Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. anacidic solution.
acidiferous: Containing or yielding an acid.
acidifiable: Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.
acidific: Producing acidity; converting into an acid. Dana.
acidification: The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.
acidifier: A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary toproduce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.
acidimeter: An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids. Ure.
acidimetry: The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by achemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or thefact that, to produce a complete reaction, a certain definite weightof reagent is required.-- Ac`id*i*met"ric*al, a.
acidity: The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to thetaste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.
acidly: Sourly; tartly.
acidness: Acidity; sourness.
acidulate: To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.Arbuthnot.
acidulent: Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous. "With anxious,acidulent face." Carlyle.
acidulous: Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture. E.Burke. Acidulous mineral waters, such as contain carbonic anhydride.
acierage: The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as astereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaicelectricity; steeling.
aciform: Shaped like a needle.
acinaceous: Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.
acinaces: A short sword or saber.
acinaciform: Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.
acinesia: Same as Akinesia.
acinetae: A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage arestationary. See Suctoria.
acinetiform: Resembling the Acinetæ.
aciniform: Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as,acinose or acinous glands. Kirwan.
acinus: One of the granular masses which constitute a racemose orcompound gland, as the pancreas; also, one of the saccular recessesin the lobules of a racemose gland. Quain.
acipenser: A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having thebody armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of thehead. See Sturgeon.
aciurgy: Operative surgery.
acknowledgedly: Confessedly.
acknowledger: One who acknowledges.
aclinic: Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needlebalances itself horizontally, having no dip. The aclinic line is alsotermed the magnetic equator. Prof. August.
acme: The crisis or height of a disease.
acne: A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in thesebaceous glands.
acnodal: Pertaining to acnodes.
acnode: An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coördinatessatisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered asbelonging to the curve.
acock: In a cocked or turned up fashion.
acold: Cold. [Obs.] "Poor Tom's acold." Shak.
acologic: Pertaining to acology.
acology: Materia medica; the science of remedies.
acolothist: See Acolythist.
acolyctine: An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained fromAconitum lycoctonum. Eng. Cyc.
acolyte: One who has received the highest of the four minor orders inthe Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water andthe lights at the Mass.
acolyth: Same as Acolyte.
acolythist: An acolyte. [Obs.]
aconital: Of the nature of aconite.
aconite: The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant ofthe genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which arepoisonous.
aconitia: Same as Aconitine.
aconitic: Of or pertaining to aconite.
aconitine: An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.
aconitum: The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.Strong As aconitum or rash gunpowder. Shak.
acontia: Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells(cnidæ), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniæwhen irritated.
acontias: Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus ofreptiles closely allied to the lizards.
acopic: Relieving weariness; restorative.
acorn: A cone-shaped piece of wood on the point of the spindle abovethe vane, on the mast-head.
acorn cup: The involucre or cup in which the acorn is fixed.
acorn-shell: One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus.See Barnacle.
acosmism: A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.
acosmist: One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universeas distinct from God. G. H. Lewes.
acotyledon: A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and allflowerless plants.
acotyledonous: Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plantswhich have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.
acouchy: A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).
acoumeter: An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense ofhearing. Itard.
acoumetry: The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.
acoustic: Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, orthe science of sounds; auditory. Acoustic duct, the auditory duct, orexternal passage of the ear.-- Acoustic telegraph, a telegraph making audible signals; atelephone.-- Acoustic vessels, brazen tubes or vessels, shaped like a bell,used in ancient theaters to propel the voices of the actors, so as torender them audible to a great distance.
acoustical: Of or pertaining to acoustics.
acoustically: In relation to sound or to hearing. Tyndall.
acoustician: One versed in acoustics. Tyndall.
acoustics: The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, andlaws.Acoustics, then, or the science of sound, is a very considerablebranch of physics. Sir J. Herschel.
acquaint: Acquainted. [Obs.]
acquaintable: Easy to be acquainted with; affable. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
acquaintanceship: A state of being acquainted; acquaintance. Southey.
acquaintant: An acquaintance. [R.] Swift.
acquainted: Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, underAcquaint, v. t.
acquaintedness: State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance. [R.] Boyle.
acquest: Property acquired by purchase, gift, or otherwise than byinheritance. Bouvier.
acquiescency: The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.
acquiescent: Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit;assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.
acquiescently: In an acquiescent manner.
acquiet: To quiet. [Obs.]Acquiet his mind from stirring you against your own peace. Sir A.Sherley.
acquirability: The quality of being acquirable; attainableness. [R.] Paley.
acquirable: Capable of being acquired.
acquire: To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own;as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.No virtue is acquired in an instant, but step by step. Barrow.Descent is the title whereby a man, on the death of his ancestor,acquires his estate, by right of representation, as his heir at law.Blackstone.
acquirement: The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment."Rules for the acquirement of a taste." Addison.His acquirements by industry were . . . enriched and enlarged by manyexcellent endowments of nature. Hayward.
acquirer: A person who acquires.
acquiry: Acquirement. [Obs.] Barrow.
acquisite: Acquired. [Obs.] Burton.
acquisitively: In the way of acquisition.
acquisitiveness: The faculty to which the phrenologists attribute the desire ofacquiring and possessing. Combe.
acquisitor: One who acquires.
acquist: Acquisition; gain. Milton.
acquit: Acquitted; set free; rid of. [Archaic] Shak.
acquitment: Acquittal. [Obs.] Milton.
acquittal: A setting free, or deliverance from the charge of an offense,by verdict of a jury or sentence of a court. Bouvier.
acquittance: To acquit. [Obs.] Shak.
acquitter: One who acquits or releases.
acrania: Partial or total absence of the skull.
acranial: Wanting a skull.
acraspeda: A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes;the Discophora.
acreable: Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.
acreage: Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.
acred: Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition;as, large-acred men.
acrid: The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness;acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.
acridly: In an acid manner.
acrimoniously: In an acrimonious manner.
acrimoniousness: The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.
acrimony: Undecided character of a disease. [Obs.]
acrita: The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system hasbeen observed.
acritan: Of or pertaining to the Acrita.-- n. An individual of the Acrita.
acrite: Acritan. Owen.
acritical: Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as,acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.
acritochromacy: Color blindness; achromatopsy.
acritude: Acridity; pungency joined with heat. [Obs.]
acrity: Sharpness; keenness. [Obs.]
acroatic: Same as Acroamatic.
acrobat: One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daringgymnastic feats.
acrobatic: Pertaining to an acrobat.-- Ac`ro*bat"ic*al*ly, adv.
acrobatism: Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.
acrocephalic: Characterized by a high skull.
acrocephaly: Loftiness of skull.
acroceraunian: Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of "thunder-smitten" peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia. Shelley.
acrodactylum: The upper surface of the toes, individually.
acrodont: One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united tothe top of the alveolar ridge.-- a. Of or pertaining to the acrodonts.
acrogen: A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including theferns, etc. See Cryptogamia. The Age of Acrogens (Geol.), the age ofcoal plants, or the carboniferous era.
acrogenous: Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenousplant.
acrolein: A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by thedehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutralfats containing glycerin. Its vapors are intensely irritating. Watts.
acrolith: A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk beinggenerally of wood. Elmes.
acromegaly: Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.
acromial: Of or pertaining to the acromion. Dunglison.
acromion: The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.
acromonogrammatic: Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with whichthe preceding verse ends.
acronycally: In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, andvise versâ.
acronyctous: Acronycal.
acrook: Crookedly. [R.] Udall.
acropetal: Developing from below towards the apex, or from thecircumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certaininflorescence.
acrophony: The use of a picture symbol of an object to representphonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.
acropodium: The entire upper surface of the foot.
acropolis: The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially,the citadel of Athens.
acropolitan: Pertaining to an acropolis.
acrospire: The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate;the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.
acrospore: A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructificationin fungi.
acrosporous: Having acrospores.
across: From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a directionopposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.Dryden. To come across, to come upon or meet incidentally. Freeman.-- To go across the country, to go by a direct course across aregion without following the roads.
acrostic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.
acrostically: After the manner of an acrostic.
acrotarsium: The instep or front of the tarsus.
acroteleutic: The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to besung by the people, by way of a response.
acroter: Same as Acroterium.
acroterial: Pertaining to an acroterium; as, ornaments. P. Cyc.
acrotic: Pertaining to or affecting the surface.
acrotism: Lack or defect of pulsation.
acrotomous: Having a cleavage parallel with the base.
acrylic: Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of whichacrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.
actable: Capable of being acted. Tennyson.
actinal: Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains themouth. L. Agassiz.
actinaria: A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simpletentacles and do not form stony corals. Sometimes, in a wider sense,applied to all the Anthozoa, expert the Alcyonaria, whether formingcorals or not.
actinic: Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.
actiniform: Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.
actinism: The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar orelectric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as inphotography.
actinium: A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercialzinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened byexposure to light.
actino-chemistry: Chemistry in its relations to actinism. Draper.
actinogram: A record made by the actinograph.
actinograph: An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in theactinic or chemical force of rays of light. Nichol.
actinoid: Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.
actinolite: A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually infibrous or columnar masses.
actinolitic: Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.
actinology: The science which treats of rays of light, especially of theactinic or chemical rays.
actinomere: One of the radial segments composing the body of one of theCoelenterata.
actinometric: Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solarrays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.
actinomycosis: A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to thepresence of Actinomyces bovis. It causes local suppurating tumors,esp. about the jaw. Called also lumpy jaw or big jaw. --Ac`ti*no*my*cot"ic (#), a.
actinophone: An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of theactinic, or ultraviolet, rays.
actinophonic: Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means ofthe actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena.
actinophorous: Having straight projecting spines.
actinosome: The entire body of a coelenterate.
actinost: (Anat.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.
actinostome: The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.
actinotrocha: A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms,having a circle of ciliated tentacles.
actinozoa: A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa Ctenophora.The sea anemone, or actinia, is a familiar example.
actinozoal: Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.
actinula: A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having astellate form.
action: Effective motion; also, mechanism; as, the breech action of agun.
actionable: That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, tocall a man a thief is actionable.
actionably: In an actionable manner.
actionless: Void of action.
activate: To make active. [Obs.]
actively: In an active signification; as, a word used actively.
activeness: The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion;activity.
activity: The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility;vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasingvariety of human activities. "The activity of toil." Palfrey.
actless: Without action or spirit. [R.]
acton: A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacketplated with mail. [Spelled also hacqueton.] [Obs.] Halliwell. Sir W.Scott.
actual: Something actually received; real, as distinct from estimated,receipts. [Cant]The accounts of revenues supplied . . . were not real receipts
actualist: One who deals with or considers actually existing facts andconditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.J. Grote.
actuality: The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God'snature. South.
actualization: A making actual or really existent. [R.] Emerson.
actualize: To make actual; to realize in action. [R.] Coleridge.
actualness: Quality of being actual; actuality.
actuarial: Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of anannuity.
actuary: A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil lawjurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.
actuate: Put in action; actuated. [Obs.] South.
actuation: A bringing into action; movement. Bp. Pearson.
actuator: One who actuates, or puts into action. [R.] Melville.
actuose: Very active. [Obs.]
actuosity: Abundant activity. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
acture: Action. [Obs.] Shak.
acturience: Tendency or impulse to act. [R.]Acturience, or desire of action, in one form or another, whether asrestlessness, ennui, dissatisfaction, or the imagination of somethingdesirable. J. Grote.
acuate: To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken. [Obs.] "[To] acuatethe blood." Harvey.
acuation: Act of sharpening. [R.]
acuition: The act of sharpening. [Obs.]
acuity: Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.
aculeate: Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.
aculeated: Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.
aculeiform: Like a prickle.
aculeolate: Having small prickles or sharp points. Gray.
aculeous: Aculeate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
aculeus: A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.Lindley.
acumen: Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind;the faculty of nice discrimination. Selden.
acuminate: Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc.
acumination: A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.Bp. Pearson.
acuminose: Terminating in a flat, narrow end. Lindley.
acuminous: Characterized by acumen; keen. Highmore.
acupressure: A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds orsurgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle,the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneoussurface. Simpson.
acupuncturation: See Acupuncture.
acupuncture: Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.):
acustumaunce: See Accustomance. [Obs.]
acutangular: Acute-angled.
acute: Attended with symptoms of some degree of severity, and comingspeedily to a crisis; -- opposed to chronic; as, an acute disease.Acute angle (Geom.), an angle less than a right angle.
acute-angled: Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a trianglewith every one of its angles less than a right angle.
acutely: In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.
acuteness: Violence of a disease, which brings it speedily to a crisis.
acutifoliate: Having sharp-pointed leaves.
acutilobate: Having acute lobes, as some leaves.
acutorsion: The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.
acyclic: Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as
acyl: An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.
ad captandum: A phrase used adjectively sometimes of meretricious attempts tocatch or win popular favor.
ad hominem: ` phrase applied to an appeal or argument addressed to theprinciples, interests, or passions of a man.
ad infinitum: Without limit; endlessly.
ad interim: Meanwhile; temporary.
ad libitum: . At one's pleasure; as one wishes.
ad valorem: A term used to denote a duty or charge laid upon goods, at acertain rate per cent upon their value, as stated in their invoice, -- in opposition to a specific sum upon a given quantity or number;as, an ad valorem duty of twenty per cent.
ad-: As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-,ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the wordto which ad- is prefixed. It remains unchanged before vowels, andbefore d, h, j, m, v. Examples
adact: To compel; to drive. [Obs.] Fotherby.
adage: An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; aproverb.Letting "I dare not" wait upon "I would," Like the poor cat i' theadage. Shak.
adagial: Pertaining to an adage; proverbial. "Adagial verse." Barrow.
adagio: Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully. When repeated, adagio,adagio, it directs the movement to be very slow.
adam: "Original sin;" human frailty.And whipped the offending Adam out of him. Shak.Adam's ale, water. [Coll.] -- Adam's apple.
adamantean: Of adamant; hard as adamant. Milton.
adamantine: Like the diamond in hardness or luster.
adambulacral: Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of thestarfish.
adamite: One of a sect of visionaries, who, professing to imitate thestate of Adam, discarded the use of dress in their assemblies.
adance: Dancing. Lowell.
adangle: Dangling. Browning.
adansonia: A genus of great trees related to the Bombax. There are twospecies, A. digitata, the baobab or monkey-bread of Africa and India,and A. Gregorii, the sour gourd or cream-of-tartar tree of Australia.Both have a trunk of moderate height, but of enormous diameter, and awide-spreading head. The fruit is oblong, and filled with pleasantlyacid pulp. The wood is very soft, and the bark is used by the nativesfor making ropes and cloth. D. C. Eaton.
adapt: Fitted; suited. [Obs.] Swift.
adaptable: Capable of being adapted.
adaptative: Adaptive. Stubbs.
adaptedness: The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; specialfitness.
adapter: A connecting tube; an adopter.
adaption: Adaptation. Cheyne.
adaptive: Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized byadaptation; capable of adapting. Coleridge.-- A*dapt"ive*ly, adv.
adaptiveness: The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.
adaptly: In a suitable manner. [R.] Prior.
adaptness: Adaptedness. [R.]
adaptorial: Adaptive. [R.]
adar: The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and thesixth of the civil. It corresponded nearly with March.
adarce: A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds inGalatia. It is soft and porous, and was formerly used for cleansingthe skin from freckles and tetters, and also in leprosy. Dana.
adatis: A fine cotton cloth of India.
adaunt: To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate. [Obs.] Skelton.
adaw: To subdue; to daunt. [Obs.]The sight whereof did greatly him adaw. Spenser.
adays: By day, or every day; in the daytime. [Obs.] Fielding.
addable: Addible.
addax: One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx,nasomaculatus).
addeem: To award; to adjudge. [Obs.] "Unto him they did addeem theprise." Spenser.
addendum: A thing to be added; an appendix or addition. Addendum circle(Mech.), the circle which may be described around a circular spurwheel or gear wheel, touching the crests or tips of the teeth.Rankine.
adder: One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for addingnumbers.
adder fly: A dragon fly.
adderwort: The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).
addibility: The quantity of being addible; capability of addition. Locke.
addible: Capable of being added. "Addible numbers." Locke.
addice: See Adze. [Obs.] Moxon.
addict: Addicted; devoted. [Obs.]
addictedness: The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.
addiction: The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination. "Hisaddiction was to courses vain." Shak.
additament: An addition, or a thing added. Fuller.My persuasion that the latter verses of the chapter were anadditament of a later age. Coleridge.
addition: That part of arithmetic which treats of adding numbers.
additional: Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.
additionally: By way of addition.
additionary: Additional. [R.] Herbert.
addititious: Additive. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.
additive: Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.
additory: Tending to add; making some addition. [R.] Arbuthnot.
addle: Having lost the power of development, and become rotten, aseggs; putrid. Hence
addle-patedness: Stupidity.
addlings: Earnings. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
addoom: To adjudge. [Obs.] Spenser.
addorsed: Set or turned back to back.
address: To consign or intrust to the care of another, as agent orfactor; as, the ship was addressed to a merchant in Baltimore. Toaddress one's self to. (a) To prepare one's self for; to apply one'sself to. (b) To direct one's speech or discourse to.
addressee: One to whom anything is addressed.
addression: The act of addressing or directing one's course. [Rare & Obs.]Chapman.
adduce: To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, orconsideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.Reasons . . . were adduced on both sides. Macaulay.Enough could not be adduced to satisfy the purpose of illustration.De Quincey.
adducent: Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word appliedto those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another.Opposed to abducent.
adducer: One who adduces.
adducible: Capable of being adduced.Proofs innumerable, and in every imaginable manner diversified, areadducible. I. Taylor.
adduct: To draw towards a common center or a middle line. Huxley.
adduction: The action by which the parts of the body are drawn towards itsaxis]; -- opposed to abduction. Dunglison.
adductive: Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.
adductor: A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward themiddle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; --opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eyetoward the nose.In the bivalve shells, the muscles which close the values of theshell are called adductor muscles. Verrill.
addulce: To sweeten; to soothe. [Obs.] Bacon.
adeem: To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by someother gift.
adelantadillo: A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.
adelantado: A governor of a province; a commander. Prescott.
adelaster: A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowersbotanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to itsproper genus.
adeling: Same as Atheling.
adelocodonic: Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike formand do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.
adelopod: An animal having feet that are not apparent.
adelphia: A "brotherhood," or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- usedin composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.
adelphous: Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens;as, adelphous stamens. Usually in composition; as, monadelphous.Gray.
adempt: Takes away. [Obs.]Without any sinister suspicion of anything being added or adempt.Latimn.
ademption: The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, orthe like. Bouvier.
aden ulcer: A disease endemic in various parts of tropical Asia, due to aspecific microörganism which produces chronic ulcers on the limbs. Itis often fatal. Called also Cochin China ulcer, Persian ulcer,tropical ulcer, etc.
adeniform: Shaped like a gland; adenoid. Dunglison.
adenitis: Glandular inflammation. Dunglison.
adenographic: Pertaining to adenography.
adenography: That part of anatomy which describes the glands.
adenological: Pertaining to adenology.
adenology: The part of physiology that treats of the glands.
adenoma: A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement ofa gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a.
adenopathy: Disease of a gland.
adenophorous: Producing glands.
adenophyllous: Having glands on the leaves.
adenosclerosis: The hardening of a gland.
adenose: Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.
adenotomic: Pertaining to adenotomy.
adenotomy: Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.
adenous: Same as Adenose.
adeps: Animal fat; lard.
adept: One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as,adepts in philosophy.
adeption: An obtaining; attainment. [Obs.]In the wit and policy of the capitain consisteth the chief adeptionof the victory. Grafton.
adeptist: A skilled alchemist. [Obs.]
adeptness: The quality of being adept; skill.
adequacy: The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, orsufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacyof supply to the expenditure.
adequate: Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent;fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequatedefinition.Ireland had no adequate champion. De Quincey.
adequately: In an adequate manner.
adequateness: The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency;adequacy.
adequation: The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; anequivalent. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.
adesmy: The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usuallyentire.
adessenarian: One who held the real presence of Christ's body in theeucharist, but not by transubstantiation.
adfected: See Affected, 5.
adfiliated: See Affiliated. [Obs.]
adfiliation: See Affiliation. [Obs.]
adfluxion: See Affluxion.
adhamant: Clinging, as by hooks.
adherent: Congenitally united with an organ of another kind, as calyxwith ovary, or stamens with petals.
adherently: In an adherent manner.
adherer: One who adheres; an adherent.
adhesion: The molecular attraction exerted between bodies in contact. SeeCohesion.
adhesively: In an adhesive manner.
adhesiveness: Propensity to form and maintain attachments to persons, and topromote social intercourse.
adhibition: The act of adhibiting; application; use. Whitaker.
adhort: To exhort; to advise. [Obs.] Feltham.
adhortation: Advice; exhortation. [Obs.] Peacham.
adhortatory: Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory. [Obs.]Potter.
adiabatic: Not giving out or receiving heat.-- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv. Adiabatic line or curve, a curveexhibiting the variations of pressure and volume of a fluid when itexpands without either receiving or giving out heat. Rankine.
adiactinic: Not transmitting the actinic rays.
adiantum: A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair.Also, the black maidenhair, a species of spleenwort.
adiaphorism: Religious indifference.
adiaphorist: One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held someopinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, whichLuther condemned as sinful or heretical. Murdock.
adiaphoristic: Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.Shipley.
adiaphorite: Same as Adiaphorist.
adiaphorous: Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.Dunglison.
adiaphory: Indifference. [Obs.]
adiathermic: Not pervious to heat.
adieu: Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.
adight: To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress. [Obs.]
adios: Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish-speaking people.
adipescent: Becoming fatty.
adipic: Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; --applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitricacid.
adipocerate: To convert adipocere.
adipoceration: The act or process of changing into adipocere.
adipocere: A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color,into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes areconverted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places.It is a result of fatty degeneration.
adipoceriform: Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, anadipoceriform tumor.
adipocerous: Like adipocere.
adipogenous: Producing fat.
adipolysis: The digestion of fats.
adipolytic: Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin andfree fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolyticaction.
adipoma: A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. --Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a.
adipose: Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty. Adipose fin (Zoöl.), asoft boneless fin.-- Adipose tissue (Anat.), that form of animal tissue which forms orcontains fat.
adipous: Fatty; adipose. [R.]
adipsous: Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.
adipsy: Absence of thirst.
adjacent: Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on;as, a field adjacent to the highway. "The adjacent forest." B.Jonson. Adjacent or contiguous angle. (Geom.) See Angle.
adjacently: So as to be adjacent.
adject: To add or annex; to join. Leland.
adjection: The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added. [R.] B.Jonson.
adjectional: Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed. [R.]Earle.
adjectitious: Added; additional. Parkhurst.
adjectival: Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the natureof an adjective; adjective. W. Taylor (1797)
adjectivally: As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.
adjective: A word used with a noun, or substantive, to express a qualityof the thing named, or something attributed to it, or to limit ordefine it, or to specify or describe a thing, as distinct fromsomething else. Thus, in phrase, "a wise ruler," wise is theadjective, expressing a property of ruler.
adjectively: In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.
adjoin: To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contactwith; to attach; to append.Corrections . . . should be, as remarks, adjoined by way of note.Watts.
adjoinant: Contiguous. [Obs.] Carew.
adjoining: Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room. "Theadjoining fane." Dryden.Upon the hills adjoining to the city. Shak.
adjoint: An adjunct; a helper. [Obs.]
adjourn: To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; topostpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of themeeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting;to adjourn a debate.It is a common practice to adjourn the reformation of their lives toa further time. Barrow.'Tis a needful fitness That we adjourn this court till further day.Shak.
adjournal: Adjournment; postponement. [R.] "An adjournal of the Diet." SirW. Scott.
adjudger: One who adjudges.
adjudgment: The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication. Sir W.Temple.
adjudicate: To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle byjudicial decree.
adjudication: The decision upon the question whether the debtor is abankrupt. Abbott.
adjudicative: Adjudicating.
adjudicator: One who adjudicates.
adjudicature: Adjudication.
adjugate: To yoke to. [Obs.]
adjument: Help; support; also, a helper. [Obs.] Waterhouse.
adjunct: Conjoined; attending; consequent.Though that my death were adjunct to my act. Shak.Adjunct notes (Mus.), short notes between those essential to theharmony; auxiliary notes; passing notes.
adjunction: The act of joining; the thing joined or added.
adjunctive: Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.
adjunctively: In an adjunctive manner.
adjunctly: By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.
adjuratory: Containing an adjuration.
adjure: To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, orunder the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn orimpressive manner; to entreat earnestly.Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man beforethe Lord, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho. Josh. vi.26.The high priest . . . said . . . I adjure thee by the living God,that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ. Matt. xxvi. 63.The commissioners adjured them not to let pass so favorable anopportunity of securing their liberties. Marshall.
adjurer: One who adjures.
adjustable: Capable of being adjusted.
adjustage: Adjustment. [R.]
adjuster: One who, or that which, adjusts.
adjustive: Tending to adjust. [R.]
adjustment: Settlement of claims; an equitable arrangement of conflictingclaims, as in set-off, contribution, exoneration, subrogation, andmarshaling. Bispham.
adjutage: Same as Ajutage.
adjutant: A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, orcommanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details ofregimental and garrison duty. Adjutant general (a) (Mil.), theprincipal staff officer of an army, through whom the commandinggeneral receives communications and issues military orders. In the U.S. army he is brigadier general. (b) (Among the Jesuits), one of aselect number of fathers, who resided with the general of the order,each of whom had a province or country assigned to his care.
adjutator: A corruption of Agitator.
adjute: To add. [Obs.]
adjutor: A helper or assistant. [Archaic] Drayton.
adjutory: Serving to help or assist; helping. [Obs.]
adjutrix: A female helper or assistant. [R.]
adjuvant: Helping; helpful; assisting. [R.] "Adjuvant causes." Howell.
adlegation: A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire ofjoining their own ministers with those of the emperor in publictreaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.Encyc. Brit.
adlocution: See Allocution. [Obs.]
admarginate: To write in the margin. [R.] Coleridge.
admaxillary: Near to the maxilla or jawbone.
admeasure: To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment;as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture. Blackstone.
admeasurer: One who admeasures.
admensuration: Same as Admeasurement.
adminicle: Corroborative or explanatory proof.
adminicular: Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as,adminicular evidence. H. Spencer.
adminiculary: Adminicular.
administer: To settle, as the estate of one who dies without a will, orwhose will fails of an executor.
administerial: Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part ofgovernment.
administrable: Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.
administrant: Executive; acting; managing affairs.-- n.
administrate: To administer. [R.] Milman.
administrative: Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, anadministrative body, ability, or energy.-- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv.
administrator: A man who manages or settles the estate of an intestate, or ofa testator when there is no competent executor; one to whom the rightof administration has been committed by competent authority.
administratorship: The position or office of an administrator.
administratrix: A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estateof an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have beengranted; a female administrator.
admirability: Admirableness. [R.] Johnson.
admirableness: The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.
admirably: In an admirable manner.
admiral: A handsome butterfly (Pyrameis Atalanta) of Europe and America.The larva feeds on nettles. Admiral shell (Zoöl.), the popular nameof an ornamental cone shell (Conus admiralis). Lord High Admiral, agreat officer of state, who (when this rare dignity is conferred) isat the head of the naval administration of Great Britain.
admiralship: The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill ofan admiral.
admirance: Admiration. [Obs.] Spenser.
admirative: Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder. [R.] Earle.
admire: To wonder; to marvel; to be affected with surprise; --sometimes with at.To wonder at Pharaoh, and even admire at myself. Fuller.
admirer: One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly. Cowper.
admiring: Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance.-- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv. Shak.
admissibility: The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, theadmissibility of evidence.
admissible: Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that maybe allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardlyadmissible.-- Ad*mis"si*ble*ness, n.-- Ad*mis"si*bly, adv.
admission: Acquiescence or concurrence in a statement made by another, anddistinguishable from a confession in that an admission presupposesprior inquiry by another, but a confession may be made without suchinquiry.
admissive: Implying an admission; tending to admit. [R.] Lamb.
admissory: Pertaining to admission.
admittable: Admissible. Sir T. Browne.
admittance: The act of giving possession of a copyhold estate. Bouvier.
admittatur: The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.
admitter: One who admits.
admix: To mingle with something else; to mix. [R.]
admixtion: A mingling of different things; admixture. Glanvill.
admonisher: One who admonishes.
admonishment: Admonition. [R.] Shak.
admonition: Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault orerror; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution orwarning.
admonitioner: Admonisher. [Obs.]
admonitive: Admonitory. [R.] Barrow.-- Ad*mon"i*tive*ly, adv.
admonitor: Admonisher; monitor.Conscience is at most times a very faithful and prudent admonitor.Shenstone.
admonitorial: Admonitory. [R.] "An admonitorial tone." Dickens.
admonitory: That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, anadmonitory glance.-- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.
admonitrix: A female admonitor.
admortization: The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.
admove: To move or conduct to or toward. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
adnascent: Growing to or on something else. "An adnascent plant." Evelyn.
adnate: Grown to congenitally.
adnation: The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or setsof organs.
adnominal: Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun. Gibbs.-- Ad*nom"i*nal*ly, adv.
adnoun: An adjective, or attribute. [R.] Coleridge.
adnubilated: Clouded; obscured. [R.]
adobe: An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective,as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.
adolescence: The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood;youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generallyconsidered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one.Sometimes used with reference to the lower animals.
adolescency: The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.
adolescent: Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.Schools, unless discipline were doubly strong, Detain theiradolescent charge too long. Cowper.
adonai: A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testamentby the word "Lord".
adonean: Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic. "Fair Adonean Venus." Faber.
adonic: Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty.-- n.
adonis: A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty. He was killed in thechase by a wild boar.
adonist: One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated"Jehovah" are really the vowel points of the word "Adonai." SeeJehovist.
adonize: To beautify; to dandify.I employed three good hours at least in adjusting and adonozingmyself. Smollett.
adoptable: Capable of being adopted.
adopted: Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son,citizen, country, word.-- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv.
adopter: A receiver, with two necks, opposite to each other, one ofwhich admits the neck of a retort, and the other is joined to anotherreceiver. It is used in distillations, to give more space to elasticvapors, to increase the length of the neck of a retort, or to unitetwo vessels whose openings have different diameters. [Written alsoadapter.]
adoptionist: One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of Godnot by nature but by adoption.
adoptious: Adopted. [Obs.]
adoptive: Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted toadopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language.-- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv.
adorability: Adorableness.
adorableness: The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration. Johnson.
adorably: In an adorable manner.
adore: To adorn. [Obs.]Congealed little drops which do the morn adore. Spenser.
adorement: The act of adoring; adoration. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
adorer: One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly;an ardent admirer. "An adorer of truth." Clarendon.I profess myself her adorer, not her friend. Shak.
adoringly: With adoration.
adorn: To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off toadvantage; to render pleasing or attractive.As a bride adorneth herself with her jewels. Isa. lxi. 10.At church, with meek and unaffected grace, His looks adorned thevenerable place. Goldsmith.
adornation: Adornment. [Obs.]
adorner: He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.
adorningly: By adorning; decoratively.
adornment: An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.
adosculation: Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.
adown: From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or onthe ground. [Archaic] "Thrice did she sink adown." Spenser.
adpress: See Appressed.-- Ad*pressed",, a.
adrad: Put in dread; afraid. [Obs.] Chaucer.
adragant: Gum tragacanth. Brande & C.
adread: To dread. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
adreamed: Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, todream. [Obs.]
adrenal: Suprarenal.
adrian: Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.
adriatic: Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part ofwhich is known as the Gulf of Venice.
adrift: Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy ofwind and waves. Also fig.So on the sea shall be set adrift. Dryden.Were from their daily labor turned adrift. Wordsworth.
adrip: In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip. D. G. Mitchell.
adrogate: To adopt (a person who is his own master).
adrogation: A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.
adroit: Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of themental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding dangeror escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- appliedto persons and to acts; as, an adroit mechanic, an adroit reply."Adroit in the application of the telescope and quadrant." Horsley."He was adroit in intrigue." Macaulay.
adroitly: In an adroit manner.
adroitness: The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.Adroitness was as requisite as courage. Motley.
adry: In a dry or thirsty condition. "A man that is adry." Burton.
adscititious: Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious."Adscititious evidence." Bowring.-- Ad`sci*ti"tious*ly, adv.
adscript: Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudalserfs.
adscriptive: Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferablewith it. Brougham.
adsignification: Additional signification. [R.] Tooke.
adsignify: To denote additionally. [R.] Tooke.
adstrict: See Astrict, and Astriction.
adstrictory: See Astrictory.
adstringent: See Astringent.
adsuki bean: A cultivated variety of the Asiatic gram, now introduced intothe United States.
adularia: A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, ororthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; --called by lapidaries moonstone.
adulate: To flatter in a servile way. Byron.
adulation: Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.Think'st thou the fiery fever will go out With titles blown fromadulation Shak.
adulator: A servile or hypocritical flatterer. Carlyle.
adulatory: Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising;flattering; as, an adulatory address.A mere rant of adulatory freedom. Burke.
adulatress: A woman who flatters with servility.
adult: Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength;matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.
adulter: To commit adultery; to pollute. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
adulterant: That which is used to adulterate anything.-- a. Adulterating; as, adulterant agents and processes.
adulterate: To commit adultery. [Obs.]
adulterator: One who adulterates or corrupts. [R.] Cudworth.
adulterer: A man who violates his religious covenant. Jer. ix. 2.
adulteress: A woman who violates her religious engagements. James iv. 4.
adulterine: Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence
adulterize: To commit adultery. Milton.
adulterously: In an adulterous manner.
adultery: The fine and penalty imposed for the offense of adultery.
adultness: The state of being adult.
adumbrant: Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.
adumbration: The shadow or outlines of a figure.
adumbrative: Faintly representing; typical. Carlyle.
adunation: A uniting; union. Jer. Taylor.
aduncity: Curvature inwards; hookedness.The aduncity of the beaks of hawks. Pope.
aduncous: Curved inwards; hooked.
adure: To burn up. [Obs.] Bacon.
adurol: Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and brominederivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers.
adust: Having much heat in the constitution and little serum in theblood. [Obs.] Hence
adusted: Burnt; adust. [Obs.] Howell.
adustible: That may be burnt. [Obs.]
adustion: Cauterization. Buchanan.
advance: Before in place, or beforehand in time; -- used for advanced;as, an advance guard, or that before the main guard or body of anarmy; advance payment, or that made before it is due; advance proofs,advance sheets, pages of a forthcoming volume, received in advance ofthe time of publication.
advancement: Property given, usually by a parent to a child, in advance of afuture distribution.
advancing edge: The front edge (in direction of motion) of a supportingsurface; -- contr. with following edge, which is the rear edge.
advancing surface: The first of two or more surfaces arranged in tandem; -- contr.with following surface, which is the rear surface.
advancive: Tending to advance. [R.]
advantage: To give an advantage to; to further; to promote; to benefit; toprofit.The truth is, the archbishop's own stiffness and averseness to complywith the court designs, advantaged his adversaries against him.Fuller.What is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and losehimself, or be cast away Luke ix. 25.To advantage one's self of, to avail one's self of. [Obs.]
advantageable: Advantageous. [Obs.]
advantageous: Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable;useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade isadvantageous to a nation.Advabtageous comparison with any other country. Prescott.You see . . . of what use a good reputation is, and how swift andadvantageous a harbinger it is, wherever one goes. Chesterfield.
advantageously: Profitably; with advantage.
advantageousness: Profitableness.
advene: To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become apart of it, though not essential. [R.]Where no act of the will advenes as a coefficient. Coleridge.
advenient: Coming from outward causes; superadded. [Obs.]
advent: The period including the four Sundays before Christmas. AdventSunday (Eccl.), the first Sunday in the season of Advent, beingalways the nearest Sunday to the feast of St. Andrew (Now. 30).Shipley.
adventist: One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who lookfor the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also SecondAdventists. Schaff-Herzog Encyc.
adventitious: Out of the proper or usual place; as, adventitious buds orroots.
adventive: Adventitious. Gray.
adventual: Relating to the season of advent. Sanderson.
adventure: To try the chance; to take the risk.I would adventure for such merchandise. Shak.
adventureful: Given to adventure.
adventuresome: Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome.-- Ad*ven"ture*some*ness, n.
adventuress: A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position byequivocal means.
adventurously: In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.
adventurousness: The quality or state of being adventurous; daring;venturesomeness.
adverb: A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle,adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writeswell; paper extremely white.
adverbial: Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as,an adverbial phrase or form.
adverbiality: The quality of being adverbial. Earle.
adverbialize: To give the force or form of an adverb to.
adverbially: In the manner of an adverb.
adversaria: A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; acommonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.These parchments are supposed to have been St. Paul's adversaria. Bp.Bull.
adversarious: Hostile. [R.] Southey.
adversary: One who is turned against another or others with a design tooppose
adversative: Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, anadversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversativeforce.-- Ad*ver"sa*tive*ly, adv.
adverse: To oppose; to resist. [Obs.] Gower.
adversely: In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.
adverseness: The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.
adversion: A turning towards; attention. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
advert: To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed ornotice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.I may again advert to the distinction. Owen.
advertent: Attentive; heedful; regardful. Sir M. Hale.-- Ad*vert"ent*ly, adv.
advertise: To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to makeknown; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject ofinformation; as, to advertise a man of his loss. [Archaic]I will advertise thee what this people shall do. Num. xxiv. 14.
advertiser: One who, or that which, advertises.
advice: Counseling to perform a specific illegal act. Wharton. Adviceboat, a vessel employed to carry dispatches or to reconnoiter; adispatch boat.-- To take advice. (a) To accept advice. (b) To consult with anotheror others.
advisability: The quality of being advisable; advisableness.
advisable-ness: The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency;advisability.
advisably: With advice; wisely.
advisedness: Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.
adviser: One who advises.
advisership: The office of an adviser. [R.]
adviso: Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
advisory: Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisorycouncil; their opinion is merely advisory.The General Association has a general advisory superintendence overall the ministers and churches. Trumbull.
advocacy: The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating;intercession.
advocate: To plead in favor of; to defend by argument, before a tribunalor the public; to support, vindicate, or recommend publicly.To advocate the cause of thy client. Bp. Sanderson (1624).This is the only thing distinct and sensible, that has beenadvocated. Burke.Eminent orators were engaged to advocate his cause. Mitford.
advocateship: Office or duty of an advocate.
advocation: The process of removing a cause from an inferior court to thesupreme court. Bell.
advocatory: Of or pertaining to an advocate. [R.]
advoke: To summon; to call. [Obs.]Queen Katharine had privately prevailed with the pope to advoke thecause to Rome. Fuller.
advolution: A rolling toward something. [R.]
advoutrer: An adulterer. [Obs.]
advoutress: An adulteress. [Obs.] Bacon.
advowee: One who has an advowson. Cowell.
advowson: The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in thechurch. [Originally, the relation of a patron (advocatus) orprotector of a benefice, and thus privileged to nominate or presentto it.]
advoyer: See Avoyer. [Obs.]
adward: Award. [Obs.] Spenser.
adynamia: Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.Dunglison.
adynamic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vitalpowers; weak.
adynamy: Adynamia. [R.] Morin.
adytum: The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whenceoracles were given. Hence
adz: To cut with an adz. [R.] Carlyle.
ae: A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxonwriters. It answers to the Gr. æ was generally replaced by a, thelong e or ee. In derivatives from Latin words with ae, it is mostlysuperseded by e. For most words found with this initial combination,the reader will therefore search under the letter E.
aecidium: A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts orBrands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.
aedile: A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence ofpublic buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.
aedileship: The office of an ædile. T. Arnold.
aegean: Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea,east of Greece. See Archipelago.
aegicrania: Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture,representing rams' heads or skulls.
aegilops: An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.
aegis: A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to theshield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva. Also fig.
aegophony: Same as Egophony.
aegrotat: A medical certificate that a student is ill.
aeneid: The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Æneas.
aeneous: Colored like bronze.
aeolic: Æolian, 1; as, the Æolic dialect; the Æolic mode.
aeolotropic: Exhibiting differences of quality or property in differentdirections; not isotropic. Sir W. Thomson.
aeolotropy: Difference of quality or property in different directions.
aeolus: The god of the winds.
aeon: A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of theDeity. See Eon.
aeonian: Eternal; everlasting. "Æonian hills." Tennyson.
aepyornis: A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.
aerate: To expose to the chemical action of air; to oxygenate (theblood) by respiration; to arterialize. Aërated bread, bread raised bycharging dough with carbonic acid gas, instead of generating the gasin the dough by fermentation.
aeration: A change produced in the blood by exposure to the air inrespiration; oxygenation of the blood in respiration;arterialization.
aerator: That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used forcharging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.
aerial sickness: A sickness felt by aëronauts due to high speed of flights andrapidity in changing altitudes, combining some symptoms of mountainsickness and some of seasickness.
aeriality: The state of being aërial; [R.] De Quincey.
aerially: Like, or from, the air; in an aërial manner. "A murmur heardaërially." Tennyson.
aerie: The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also abrood of such birds; eyrie. Shak. Also fig.
aeriferous: Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe isan aëriferous tube.
aeriform: Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid;gaseous. Hence fig.
aero-: The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.
aerobic: Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also,pertaining to, or induced by, aërobies; as, aërobic fermentation. --A`ër*o"bic*al*ly (#), adv.
aerobies: Microörganisms which live in contact with the air and needoxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on thesurface of putrefactive fluids.
aerobiotic: Related to, or of the nature of, aërobies; as, aërobioticplants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.
aeroboat: A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.
aerobus: An aëroplane or airship designed to carry passengers.
aeroclub: A club or association of persons interested in aëronautics.
aerocurve: A modification of the aëroplane, having curved surfaces, theadvantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal.
aerocyst: One of the air cells of algals.
aerodonetics: The science of gliding and soaring flight.
aerodynamic: Pertaining to the force of air in motion.
aerodynamics: The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodiesunder the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.
aerofoil: A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movementthrough the air; a spread wing, as of a bird.
aerognosy: The science which treats of the properties of the air, and ofthe part it plays in nature. Craig.
aerographer: One versed in aëography
aerography: A description of the air or atmosphere; aërology.
aerogun: A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for useagainst aircraft.
aerohydrodynamic: Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aërohydrodynamicwheel.
aerolite: A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth fromdistant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.
aerolith: Same as A.
aerolithology: The science of aërolites.
aerolitic: Of or pertaining to aërolites; meteoric; as, aërolitic iron.Booth.
aerologist: One versed in aërology.
aerology: That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.
aeromancy: Divination from the state of the air or from atmosphericsubstances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.
aeromechanic: A mechanic or mechanician expert in the art and practice ofaëronautics.
aeromechanics: The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aëriformfluid, including aërodynamics and aërostatics.
aerometer: An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air andgases.
aerometric: Of or pertaining to aërometry; as, aërometric investigations.
aerometry: The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of itspressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.
aeronat: A dirigible balloon.
aeronaut: An aërial navigator; a balloonist.
aeronautics: The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as bymeans of a balloon; aërial navigation; ballooning.
aeronef: A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.
aerophyte: A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving itsnourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.
aeroplane: A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying,which floats in the air only when propelled through it.
aeroplanist: One who flies in an aëroplane.
aeroscope: An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria,etc., suspended in the air.
aeroscopy: The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.
aerose: Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy. [R.]
aerosiderite: A mass of meteoric iron.
aerosphere: The atmosphere. [R.]
aerostatics: The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids,or that of bodies sustained in them. Hence it includes aëronautics.
aerotaxis: The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aërobicand anaërobic bacteria. -- A`ër*o*tac"tic (#), a.
aerotherapentics: Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases.
aeroyacht: A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.
aeruginous: Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.
aerugo: The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.
aery: An aerie.
aesculapian: Pertaining to Æsculapius or to the healing art; medical;medicinal.
aesculapius: The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.
aesculin: Same as Esculin.
aesir: In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder,Frigg, and the others. Their home was called Asgard.
aesthesia: Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite ofanæsthesia.
aesthesis: Sensuous perception. [R.] Ruskin.
aesthesodic: Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.
aesthete: One who makes much or overmuch of æsthetics. [Recent]
aesthetican: One versed in æsthetics.
aestheticism: The doctrine of æsthetics; æsthetic principles; devotion to thebeautiful in nature and art. Lowell.
aestho-physiology: The science of sensation in relation to nervous action. H.Spenser.
aestival: Of or belonging to the summer; as, æstival diseases. [Speltalso estival.]
aestivate: To pass the summer in a state of torpor. [Spelt also estivate.]
aestivation: The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness ofsummer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.
aestuary: See Estuary.
aestuous: Glowing; agitated, as with heat.
aetheogamous: Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.
aether: See Ether.
aethiops mineral: Same as Ethiops mineral. [Obs.]
aethogen: A compound of nitrogen and boro
aethrioscope: An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer.It is used for measuring changes of temperature produced by differentconditions of the sky, as when clear or clouded.
aetiological: Pertaining to ætiology; assigning a cause.-- Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
aetites: See Eaglestone.
afar: At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used withfrom preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I sawhim afar off.The steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar. Beattie.
afeard: Afraid. [Obs.]Be not afeard; the isle is full of noises. Shak.
afer: The southwest wind. Milton.
affability: The quality of being affable; readiness to converse;courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisantbehavior.Affability is of a wonderful efficacy or power in procuring love.Elyot
affableness: Affability.
affably: In an affable manner; courteously.
affabrous: Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made. [R.]Bailey.
affair: An action or engagement not of sufficient magnitude to becalled a battle.
affamish: To afflict with, or perish from, hunger. [Obs.] Spenser.
affamishment: Starvation. Bp. Hall.
affatuate: To infatuate. [Obs.] Milton.
affear: To frighten. [Obs.] Spenser.
affect: Affection; inclination; passion; feeling; disposition. [Obs.]Shak.
affectationist: One who exhibits affectation. [R.] Fitzed. Hall.
affected: Made up of terms involving different powers of the unknownquantity; adfected; as, an affected equation.
affectedness: Affectation.
affecter: One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after."Affecters of wit." Abp. Secker.
affectibility: The quality or state of being affectible. [R.]
affectible: That may be affected. [R.]Lay aside the absolute, and, by union with the creaturely, becomeaffectible. Coleridge.
affectingly: In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.
affection: Disease; morbid symptom; malady; as, a pulmonary affection.Dunglison.
affectional: Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses;an affectional nature.
affectionated: Disposed; inclined. [Obs.]Affectionated to the people. Holinshed.
affectionately: With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.
affectionateness: The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.
affectively: In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.
affectuous: Full of passion or emotion; earnest. [Obs.] --Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.] Fabyan.
affeer: To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, toa certain and reasonable sum.Amercements . . . were affeered by the judges. Blackstone.
affeerment: The act of affeering. Blackstone.
afferent: Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed toefferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which conveysensations from the external organs to the brain.
affettuoso: With feeling.
affiancer: One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.
affiant: One who makes an affidavit. [U. S.] Burrill.
affiche: A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; aposter; a placard.
affidavit: A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signedand made upon oath before an authorized magistrate. Bouvier. Burrill.
affile: To polish. [Obs.]
affiliable: Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with inorigin.
affiliate: To connect or associate one's self; -- followed by with; as,they affiliate with no party.
affiliation: The establishment or ascertaining of parentage; the assignmentof a child, as a bastard, to its father; filiation.
affinal: Related by marriage; from the same source.
affine: To refine. [Obs.] Holland.
affined: Joined in affinity or by any tie. [Obs.] "All affined and kin."Shak.
affinitative: Of the nature of affinity.-- Af*fin"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.
affinitive: Closely connected, as by affinity.
affinity: That attraction which takes place, at an insensible distance,between the heterogeneous particles of bodies, and unites them toform chemical compounds; chemism; chemical or elective affinity orattraction.
affirm: to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, broughtbefore an appelate court for review.
affirmable: Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followedby of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.
affirmant: One who affirms of taking an oath.
affirmation: A solemn declaration made under the penalties of perjury, bypersons who conscientiously decline taking an oath, which declarationis in law equivalent to an oath. Bouvier.
affirmative: Expressing the agreement of the two terms of a proposition.
affirmatively: In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of aquestion; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.
affirmatory: Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative. Massey.
affirmer: One who affirms.
affix: That which is affixed; an appendage; esp. one or more lettersor syllables added at the end of a word; a suffix; a postfix.
affixion: Affixture. [Obs.] T. Adams.
affixture: The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.
afflation: A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.
afflict: Afflicted. [Obs.] Becon.
afflictedness: The state of being afflicted; affliction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
afflicter: One who afflicts.
afflicting: Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflictingevent.-- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv.
afflictionless: Free from affliction.
afflictive: Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief;distressing. "Jove's afflictive hand." Pope.Spreads slow disease, and darts afflictive pain. Prior.
afflictively: In an afflictive manner.
affluency: Affluence. [Obs.] Addison.
affluent: A stream or river flowing into a larger river or into a lake; atributary stream.
affluently: Abundantly; copiously.
affluentness: Great plenty. [R.]
afflux: A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of bloodto the head.
affluxion: The act of flowing towards; afflux. Sir T. Browne.
affodill: Asphodel. [Obs.]
afforce: To reënforce; to strengthen. Hallam.
afforciament: See Afforcement. [Obs.]
affordable: That may be afforded.
affordment: Anything given as a help; bestowal. [Obs.]
afforest: To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.
afforestation: The act of converting into forest or woodland. Blackstone.
afformative: An affix.
affranchise: To make free; to enfranchise. Johnson.
affranchisement: The act of making free; enfranchisement. [R.]
affrap: To strike, or strike down. [Obs.] Spenser.
affray: The fighting of two or more persons, in a public place, to theterror of others. Blackstone.
affrayer: One engaged in an affray.
affrayment: Affray. [Obs.] Spenser.
affreight: To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.
affreighter: One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.
affreightment: The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, orsome part of it, to convey cargo.
affret: A furious onset or attack. [Obs.] Spenser.
affricate: A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediatelyfollowing fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, aspf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time.
affriction: The act of rubbing against. [Obs.]
affriended: Made friends; reconciled. [Obs.] "Deadly foes . . .affriended." Spenser.
affright: To impress with sudden fear; to frighten; to alarm.Dreams affright our souls. Shak.A drear and dying sound Affrights the flamens at their servicequaint. Milton.
affrightedly: With fright. Drayton.
affrighten: To frighten. [Archaic] "Fit tales . . . to affrighten babes."Southey.
affrighter: One who frightens. [Archaic]
affrightful: Terrifying; frightful.-- Af*fright"ful*ly, adv. [Archaic]Bugbears or affrightful apparitions. Cudworth.
affrightment: Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.[Archaic]Passionate words or blows . . . fill the child's mind with terror andaffrightment. Locke.
affronte: Face to face, or front to front; facing.
affrontedly: Shamelessly. [Obs.] Bacon.
affrontee: One who receives an affront. Lytton.
affronter: One who affronts, or insults to the face.
affrontingly: In an affronting manner.
affrontive: Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.How affrontive it is to despise mercy. South.
affrontiveness: The quality that gives an affront or offense. [R.] Bailey.
affuse: To pour out or upon. [R.]I first affused water upon the compressed beans. Boyle.
affusion: The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as waterupon a child in baptism. Specifically
affy: To trust or confide. [Obs.] Shak.
afghan: Of or pertaining to Afghanistan.
afire: On fire.
aflame: Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze. G. Eliot.
aflat: Level with the ground; flat. [Obs.] Bacon.
aflaunt: In a flaunting state or position. Copley.
aflicker: In a flickering state.
aflow: Flowing.Their founts aflow with tears. R. Browning.
aflush: In a flushed or blushing state.
aflutter: In a flutter; agitated.
afoam: In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.
afore: In the fore part of a vessel.
aforecited: Named or quoted before.
aforegoing: Going before; foregoing.
aforehand: Beforehand; in anticipation. [Archaic or Dial.]She is come aforehand to anoint my body. Mark xiv. 8.
aforementioned: Previously mentioned; before-mentioned. Addison.
aforenamed: Named before. Peacham.
aforesaid: Said before, or in a preceding part; already described oridentified.
aforethought: Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as,malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder. Bouvier.
aforetime: In time past; formerly. "He prayed . . . as he did aforetime."Dan. vi. 10.
afoul: In collision; entangled. Totten. To run afoul of, to runagainst or come into collision with, especially so as to becomeentangled or to cause injury.
afraid: Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.[Afraid comes after the noun it limits.] "Back they recoiled,afraid." Milton.
afreet: Same as Afrit.
afresh: Anew; again; once more; newly.They crucify . . . the Son of God afresh. Heb. vi. 6.
afric: African.-- n.
african: Of or pertaining to Africa. African hemp, a fiber prerared fromthe leaves of the Sanseviera Guineensis, a plant found in Africa andIndia.-- African marigold, a tropical American plant (Tagetes erecta).-- African oak or African teak, a timber furnished by OldfieldiaAfricana, used in ship building. African violet African-American, aUnited States citizen of African descent.
africander: One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a"colored" mother. Also, and now commonly in Southern Africa, a nativeborn of European settlers.
africanism: A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa orAfricans. "The knotty Africanisms . . . of the fathers." Milton.
africanize: To place under the domination of Africans or negroes. [Amer.]Bartlett.
afront: In front; face to face.-- prep. In front of. Shak.
aft: Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.
after: To ward the stern of the ship; -- applied to any object in therear part of a vessel; as the after cabin, after hatchway.
after damp: An irrespirable gas, remaining after an explosion of fire dampin mines; choke damp. See Carbonic acid.
after-dinner: The time just after dinner. "An after-dinner's sleep." Shak.[Obs.] -- a.
after-eatage: Aftergrass.
after-glow: A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.
after-image: The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina ofthe eye after the cause has been removed; also extended toimpressions left of tones, smells, etc.
after-mentioned: Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in awriting).
after-note: One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of themeasure, taking their time from the preceding note.
after-sails: The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between themainmast and mizzenmast. Totten.
after-wit: Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use. "After-wit comes too late when the mischief is done." L'Estrange.
after-witted: Characterized by afterwit; slow-witted. Tyndale.
afterbirth: The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected,and which come away after delivery.
aftercast: A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything donetoo late. Gower.
afterclap: An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeablehappening after an affair is supposed to be at an end. Spenser.
aftercrop: A second crop or harvest in the same year. Mortimer.
aftereye: To look after. [Poetic] Shak.
aftergame: A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient. Wotton.Aftergame at Irish, an ancient game very nearly resemblingbackgammon. Beau. & Fl.
aftergrass: The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown;aftermath.
aftergrowth: A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development. J. S.Mill.
afterguard: The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of theship, to attend the after-sails. Totten.
afterings: The last milk drawn in milking; strokings. [Obs.] Grose.
aftermath: A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop ofhay in the same season; rowen. Holland.
aftermost: Nearest the stern; most aft.
afternoon: The part of the day which follows noon, between noon andevening.
afterpains: The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling theafterbirth.
afterpiece: The heel of a rudder.
aftersensation: A sensation or sense impression following the removal of astimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primarysensation in positive, negative, or complementary form. Theaftersensation may be continuous with the primary sensation or followit after an interval.
aftershaft: The hypoptilum.
aftertaste: A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.
afterthought: Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought orexpedient.
afterwise: Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.
aftmost: Nearest the stern.
aftward: Toward the stern.
again: Against; also, towards (in order to meet). [Obs.]Albeit that it is again his kind. Chaucer.
againbuy: To redeem. [Obs.] Wyclif.
againsay: To gainsay. [Obs.] Wyclif.
againstand: To withstand. [Obs.]
againward: Back again. [Obs.]
agal-agal: Same as Agar-agar.
agalactous: Lacking milk to suckle with.
agalmatolite: A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowishcolor, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figurestone, and pagodite. It is probably a variety of pinite.
agama: A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetablesubstances; also, one of these lizards.
agami: A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to thecranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breastedtrumpeter. Its body is about the size of the pheasant. See Trumpeter.
agamically: In an agamic manner.
agamist: An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage. Foxe.
agamogenesis: Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes:asexual reproduction.
agamogenetic: Reproducing or produced without sexual union.-- Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.All known agamogenetic processes end in a complete return to theprimitive stock. Huxley.
agamous: Having no visible sexual organs; asexual. In Bot.,cryptogamous.
aganglionic: Without ganglia.
agape: Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.Dazzles the crowd and sets them all agape. Milton.
agar-agar: A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies;Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).
agaric: A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which thecommon mushroom is an example.
agasp: In a state of gasping. Coleridge.
agast: See Aghast.
agastric: Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as thetapeworm.
agate: On the way; agoing; as, to be agate; to set the bells agate.[Obs.] Cotgrave.
agatiferous: Containing or producing agates. Craig.
agatine: Pertaining to, or like, agate.
agatize: To convert into agate; to make resemble agate. Dana.
agaty: Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.
agave: A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceæ) of which the chiefspecies is the maguey or century plant (A. Americana), wrongly calledAloe. It is from ten to seventy years, according to climate, inattaining maturity, when it produces a gigantic flower stem,sometimes forty feet in height, and perishes. The fermented juice isthe pulque of the Mexicans; distilled, it yields mescal. A strongthread and a tough paper are made from the leaves, and the wood hasmany uses.
agazed: Gazing with astonishment; amazed. [Obs.]The whole army stood agazed on him. Shak.
age: To grow aged; to become old; to show marks of age; as, he grewfat as he aged.They live one hundred and thirty years, and never age for all that.Holland.I am aging; that is, I have a whitish, or rather a light-colored,hair here and there. Landor.
agedly: In the manner of an aged person.
agedness: The quality of being aged; oldness.Custom without truth is but agedness of error. Milton.
ageless: Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of agelessyouth.
agen: See Again. [Obs.]
agend: See Agendum. [Obs.]
agenesic: Characterized by sterility; infecund.
agenesis: Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly oforganization.
agennesis: Impotence; sterility.
agent: Actingpatient, or sustaining, action. [Archaic] "The bodyagent." Bacon.
agential: Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency. Fitzed. Hall.
agentship: Agency. Beau. & Fl.
ageratum: A genus of plants, one species of which (A. Mexicanum) haslavender-blue flowers in dense clusters.
aggeneration: The act of producing in addition. [Obs.] T. Stanley.
agger: An earthwork; a mound; a raised work. [Obs.] Hearne.
aggerate: To heap up. [Obs.] Foxe.
aggeration: A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand. [R.]
aggerose: In heaps; full of heaps.
aggest: To heap up. [Obs.]The violence of the waters aggested the earth. Fuller.
agglomerate: To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass oranything like a mass.Where he builds the agglomerated pile. Cowper.
agglomerative: Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.Taylor is eminently discursive, accumulative, and (to use one of hisown words) agglomerative. Coleridge.
agglutinant: Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion.-- n.
agglutinate: To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscoussubstance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.
agglutination: Combination in which root words are united with little or nochange of form or loss of meaning. See Agglutinative, 2.
agglutinative: Formed or characterized by agglutination, as a language or acompound.In agglutinative languages the union of words may be compared tomechanical compounds, in inflective languages to chemical compounds.R. Morris.Cf. man-kind, heir-loom, war-like, which are agglutinative compounds.The Finnish, Hungarian, Turkish, the Tamul, etc., are agglutinativelanguages. R. Morris.Agglutinative languages preserve the consciousness of their roots.Max Müller.
aggrace: To favor; to grace. [Obs.] "That knight so much aggraced."Spenser.
aggrade: To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, byaddition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositingsediment.
aggrandizable: Capable of being aggrandized.
aggrandization: Aggrandizement. [Obs.] Waterhouse.
aggrandize: To increase or become great. [Obs.]Follies, continued till old age, do aggrandize. J. Hall.
aggrandizement: The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized orexalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement;as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.
aggrandizer: One who aggrandizes, or makes great.
aggrate: To please. [Obs.]Each one sought his lady to aggrate. Spenser.
aggravatingly: In an aggravating manner.
aggravative: Tending to aggravate. Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv.-- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.No aggressive movement was made. Macaulay.
aggregately: Collectively; in mass.
aggregation: The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated;collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; anaggregate.
aggregator: One who aggregates.
aggrege: To make heavy; to aggravate. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aggress: To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin aquarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.
aggression: The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury,or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack;assault; as, a war of aggression. "Aggressions of power."  Hallam
aggressive: Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression;making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war,person, nation. -- Ag*gres"sive*ly, adv. -- Ag*gres"sive*ness, n.
aggressor: The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he whobegins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.The insolence of the aggressor is usually proportioned to thetameness of the sufferer. Ames.
aggrievance: Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance. [Archaic]
aggrieve: To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress orinjure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used inthe passive TO be aggrieved.Aggrieved by oppression and extortion. Macaulay.
aggroup: To bring together in a group; to group. Dryden.
aggroupment: Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.
aghast: See Agast, v. t. [Obs.]
agible: Possible to be done; practicable. [Obs.] "Fit for agiblethings." Sir A. Sherley.
agile: Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or readyto move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.Shaking it with agile hand. Cowper.
agilely: In an agile manner; nimbly.
agileness: Agility; nimbleness. [R.]
agio: The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it isgiven in exchange for an inferior sort. The premium or discount onforeign bills of exchange is sometimes called agio.
agiotage: Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers ofspeculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.Vanity and agiotage are to a Parisian the oxygen and hydrogen oflife. Landor.
agist: To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- usedoriginally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, andcollecting the money for the same. Blackstone.
agistator: See Agister.
agitable: Capable of being agitated, or easily moved. [R.]
agitatedly: In an agitated manner.
agitative: Tending to agitate.
agitato: Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.
agitator: One of a body of men appointed by the army, in Cromwell's time,to look after their interests; -- called also adjutators. Clarendon.
agleam: Gleaming; as, faces agleam. Lowell.
agley: Aside; askew. [Scotch] Burns.
aglimmer: In a glimmering state. Hawthorne.
aglitter: Clittering; in a glitter.
aglossal: Without tongue; tongueless.
aglow: In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.
aglutition: Inability to swallow.
agminal: Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train. [R.]
agnate: A relative whose relationship can be traced exclusively throughmales.
agnatic: Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors. "Theagnatic succession." Blackstone.
agnation: Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished fromcognation. Bouvier.
agnition: Acknowledgment. [Obs.] Grafton.
agnize: To recognize; to acknowledge. [Archaic]I do agnize a natural and prompt alacrity. Shak.
agnoiology: The doctrine concerning those things of which we arenecessarily ignorant.
agnominate: To name. [Obs.]
agnostic: Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to orinvolving agnosticism.-- Ag*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.
agnosticism: That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nordenies. Specifically
agnus: Agnus Dei.
agnus castus: A species of Vitex (V. agnus castus); the chaste tree. Loudon.And wreaths of agnus castus others bore. Dryden.
agnus scythicus: The Scythian lamb, a kind of woolly-skinned rootstock. SeeBarometz.
ago: Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.
agog: In eager desire; eager; astir.All agog to dash through thick and thin. Cowper.
agoing: In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.
agon: A contest for a prize at the public games.
agone: Ago. [Archaic. & Poet.]Three days agone I fell sick. 1 Sam. xxx. 13.
agonic: Not forming an angle. Agonic line (Physics), an imaginary lineon the earth's surface passing through those places where themagnetic needle points to the true north; the line of no magneticvariation. There is one such line in the Western hemisphere, andanother in the Eastern hemisphere.
agonism: Contention for a prize; a contest. [Obs.] Blount.
agonist: One who contends for the prize in public games. [R.]
agonistically: In an agonistic manner.
agonistics: The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.
agonize: To cause to suffer agony; to subject to extreme pain; totorture.He agonized his mother by his behavior. Thackeray.
agonizingly: With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.
agonothete: An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.
agonothetic: Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.
agood: In earnest; heartily. [Obs.] "I made her weep agood."  Shak.
agora: An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially themarket place, in an ancient Greek city.
agouara: The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in thetropical parts of America.
agouta: A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied tothe moles, found only in Hayti.
agrace: See Aggrace. [Obs.]
agrammatist: A illiterate person. [Obs.] Bailey.
agraphia: The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by writtensigns. It is one form of aphasia.
agraphic: Characterized by agraphia.
agrappes: Hooks and eyes for armor, etc. Fairholt.
agrarian: Wild; -- said of plants growing in the fields.
agrarianism: An equal or equitable division of landed property; theprinciples or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.
agrarianize: To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles ofagrarianism.
agree: To correspond in gender, number, case, or person.
agreeingly: In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably. [Obs.]
agreement: Concord or correspondence of one word with another in gender,number, case, or person.
agreer: One who agrees.
agrestic: Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city;rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth. "Agrestic behavior." Gregory.
agrestical: Agrestic. [Obs.]
agricolation: Agriculture. [Obs.] Bailey.
agricolist: A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist. Dodsley.
agricultor: An agriculturist; a farmer. [R.]
agricultural: Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in,tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages,etc.-- Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ly, adv. Agricultural ant (Zoöl.), a species ofant which gathers and stores seeds of grasses, for food. Theremarkable species (Myrmica barbata) found in Texas clears circularareas and carefully cultivates its favorite grain, known as ant rice.
agriculturalist: An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)
agriculture: The art or science of cultivating the ground, including theharvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock;tillage; husbandry; farming.
agriculturism: Agriculture. [R.]
agriculturist: One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.The farmer is always a practitioner, the agriculturist may be a meretheorist. Crabb.
agrief: In grief; amiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.
agrin: In the act of grinning. "His visage all agrin." Tennyson.
agriologist: One versed or engaged in agriology.
agriology: Description or comparative study of the customs of savage oruncivilized tribes.
agrise: To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear. [Obs.] Chaucer.
agrom: A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the EastIndies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.
agronomics: The science of the distribution and management of land.
agronomist: One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.
agronomy: The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.
agrope: In the act of groping. Mrs. Browning.
agrostis: A genus of grasses, including species called in common languagebent grass. Some of them, as redtop (Agrostis vulgaris), are valuablepasture grasses.
agrostography: A description of the grasses.
agrostologist: One skilled in agrostology.
agrostology: That part of botany which treats of the grasses.
agrotechny: That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods ofconversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles;agricultural technology.
aground: On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a shipwhen its bottom lodges on the ground. Totten.
agroupment: See Aggroupment.
agrypnotic: Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, asstrong tea or coffee.
ague: An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.
aguilt: To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong. [Obs.]Chaucer.
aguise: Dress. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
agush: In a gushing state. Hawthorne.
agynous: Without female organs; male.
ah: An exclamation, expressive of surprise, pity, complaint,entreaty, contempt, threatening, delight, triumph, etc., according tothe manner of utterance.
aha: An exclamation expressing, by different intonations, triumph,mixed with derision or irony, or simple surprise.
aheap: In a heap; huddled together. Hood.
aheight: Aloft; on high. [Obs.] "Look up aheight." Shak.
ahem: An exclamation to call one's attention; hem.
ahey: Hey; ho.
ahigh: On high. [Obs.] Shak.
ahold: Near the wind; as, to lay a ship ahold. [Obs.] Shak.
ahorseback: On horseback.Two suspicious fellows ahorseback. Smollet.
ahoy: A term used in hailing; as, "Ship ahoy."
ahriman: The Evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Princeof Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.
ahu: The Asiatic gazelle.
ahull: With the sails furled, and the helm lashed alee; -- applied toships in a storm. See Hull, n.
ahungered: Pinched with hunger; very hungry. C. Bronté.
ai: The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America.See Sloth.
aid: To support, either by furnishing strength or means incoöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; tohelp; to assist.You speedy helpers . . . Appear and aid me in this enterprise. Shak.
aid-de-camp: An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also toassist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.
aid-major: The adjutant of a regiment.
aidance: Aid. [R.]Aidance 'gainst the enemy. Shak.
aidant: Helping; helpful; supplying aid. Shak.
aider: One who, or that which, aids.
aidful: Helpful. [Archaic.] Bp. Hall.
aidless: Helpless; without aid. Milton.
aiel: See Ayle. [Obs.]
aiglet: Same as Aglet.
aigre: Sour. [Obs.] Shak.
aigremore: Charcoal prepared for making powder.
aigulet: See Aglet. Spenser.
ail: To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental;to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasinessor affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I knownot what ails him.What aileth thee, Hagar Gen. xxi. 17.
ailanthus: Same as Ailantus.
ailantus: A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies. Thetree imperfectly di
aileron: A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of achurch.
ailette: A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders ofknights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet. Fairholt.
ailment: Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not appliedordinarily to acute diseases. "Little ailments." Landsdowne.
ailuroidea: A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, andhyenas.
aim: To direct or point, as a weapon, at a particular object; todirect, as a missile, an act, or a proceeding, at, to, or against anobject; as, to aim a musket or an arrow, the fist or a blow (atsomething); to aim a satire or a reflection (at some person or vice).
aimer: One who aims, directs, or points.
aimless: Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life.-- Aim"less*ly, adv.-- Aim"less*ness, n.
aino: One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islandsetc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposedto have been the progenitors of the Japanese. The Ainos are stout andshort, with hairy bodies.
air: An artificial or affected manner; show of pride or vanity;haughtiness; as, it is said of a person, he puts on airs. Thackeray.
air bed: A sack or matters inflated with air, and used as a bed.
air bladder: An air sac, sometimes double or variously lobed, in thevisceral cavity of many fishes. It originates in the same way as thelungs of air-breathing vertebrates, and in the adult may retain atubular connection with the pharynx or esophagus.
air brake: A railway brake operated by condensed air. Knight.
air brush: A kind of atomizer for applying liquid coloring matter in aspray by compressed air.
air cell: A cavity in the cellular tissue of plants, containing air only.
air cock: A faucet to allow escape of air.
air cooling: In gasoline-engine motor vehicles, the cooling of the cylinderby increasing its radiating surface by means of ribs or radiators,and placing it so that it is exposed to a current of air. Cf. Watercooling. -- Air"-cooled`, a.
air drill: A drill driven by the elastic pressure of condensed air; apneumatic drill. Knight.
air engine: An engine driven by heated or by compressed air. Knight.
air gap: An air-filled gap in a magnetic or electric circuit; specif.,in a dynamo or motor, the space between the field-magnet poles andthe armature; clearance.
air gas: See under Gas.
air gun: A kind of gun in which the elastic force of condensed air isused to discharge the ball. The air is powerfully compressed into areservoir attached to the gun, by a condensing pump, and iscontrolled by a valve actuated by the trigger.
air hole: A fault in a casting, produced by a bubble of air; a blowhole.
air jacket: A jacket having air-tight cells, or cavities which can befilled with air, to render persons buoyant in swimming.
air level: Spirit level. See Level.
air line: A path through the air made easy for aërial navigation bysteady winds.
air pipe: A pipe for the passage of air; esp. a ventilating pipe.
air plant: A plant deriving its sustenance from the air alone; anaërophyte.
air poise: A
air pump: A kind of pump for exhausting air from a vessel or closedspace; also, a pump to condense air of force in into a closed space.
air sac: One of the spaces in different parts. of the bodies of birds,which are filled with air and connected with the air passages of thelungs; an air cell.
air shaft: A passage, usually vertical, for admitting fresh air into amine or a tunnel.
air stove: A stove for heating a current of air which is directed againstits surface by means of pipes, and then distributed through abuilding.
air vessel: A vessel, cell, duct, or tube containing or conducting air; asthe air vessels of insects, birds, plants, etc.; the air vessel of apump, engine, etc. For the latter, see Air chamber. The air vesselsof insects are called tracheæ, of plants spiral vessels.
air-built: Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as,an air-built castle.
air-drawn: Drawn in air; imaginary.This is the air-drawn dagger. Shak.
air-slacked: Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slackedlime.
air-tight: So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tightcylinder.
aircraft: Any device, as a balloon, aëroplane, etc., for floating in, orflying through, the air.
airily: In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly.
airless: Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, orcommunication with the open air.
airlike: Resembling air.
airling: A thoughtless, gay person. [Obs.] "Slight airlings." B. Jonson.
airman: A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machinepilot.
airmanship: Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation.
airol: A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodideand gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform. [ATrademark]
airometer: A hollow cylinder to contain air. It is closed above and openbelow, and has its open end plunged into water.
airsick: Affected with aërial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n.
airwoman: A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft.
airy: Having the light and aërial tints true to nature. Elmes.
aisled: Furnished with an aisle or aisles.
aisless: Without an aisle.
ait: An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.The ait where the osiers grew. R. Hodges (1649).Among green aits and meadows. Dickens.
aitch: The letter h or H.
aitchbone: The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding thisbone. [Spelt also edgebone.]
aitiology: See Ætiology.
ajar: Slightly turned or opened; as, the door was standing ajar.
ajava: See Ajouan.
ajog: On the jog.
ajutage: A tube through which is water is discharged; an efflux tube;as, the ajutage of a fountain.
ake: See Ache.
akene: Same as Achene.
aketon: See Acton.
akimbo: With a crook or bend; with the hand on the hip and elbow turnedoutward. "With one arm akimbo." Irving.
akinesia: Paralysis of the motor nerves; loss of movement. Foster.
akinesic: Pertaining to akinesia.
aknee: On the knee. [R.] Southey.
aknow: Earlier form of Acknow. [Obs.] To be aknow, to acknowledge; toconfess. [Obs.]
al: All. [Obs.] Chaucer.
al segno: A direction for the performer to return and recommence from thesign
al-: All; wholly; completely; as, almighty,almost. (b) Etym
al-phitomancy: Divination by means of barley meal. Knowles.
ala: A winglike organ, or part.
alabama period: A period in the American eocene, the lowest in the tertiary ageexcept the lignitic.
alabastrian: Alabastrine.
alabastrine: Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.
alabastrum: A flower bud. Gray.
alack: An exclamation expressive of sorrow. [Archaic. or Poet.] Shak.
alackaday: An exclamation expressing sorrow.
alacrify: To rouse to action; to inspirit.
alacrious: Brisk; joyously active; lively.'T were well if we were a little more alacrious. Hammond.
alacriously: With alacrity; briskly.
alacriousness: Alacrity. [Obs.] Hammond.
alacrity: A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyousactivity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced withalacrity to meet the enemy.I have not that alacrity of spirit, Nor cheer of mind that I was wontto have. Shak.
aladinist: One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.
alalia: Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysisof the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis,aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.
alamire: The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.
alamodality: The quality of being à la mode; conformity to the mode orfashion; fashionableness. [R.] Southey.
alamode: According to the fashion or prevailing mode. "Alamode beefshops." Macaulay.
alamort: To the death; mortally.
alan: A wolfhound. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aland: On land; to the land; ashore. "Cast aland." Sir P. Sidney.
alanine: A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehydeammonia.
alantin: See Inulin.
alar: Axillary; in the fork or axil. Gray.
alarmable: Easily alarmed or disturbed.
alarmed: Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger;agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.The white pavilions rose and fell On the alarmed air. Longfellow.
alarmedly: In an alarmed manner.
alarming: Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehensionof danger; as, an alarming crisis or report.-- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.
alarmist: One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needlessalarms. Macaulay.
alarum: See Alarm. [Now Poetic]
alary: Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.The alary system of insects. Wollaston.
alas: An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension ofevil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas theday, like alack a day, or alas the white.
alate: Lately; of late. [Archaic]There hath been alate such tales spread abroad. Latimer.
alation: The state of being winged.
alaunt: See Alan. [Obs.] Chaucer.
alb: A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an envelopingthe person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holyorders when officiating at mass. It was formerly worn, at least byclerics, in daily life.
alb sunday: The first Sunday after Easter Sunday, properly Albless Sunday,because in the early church those who had been baptized on Easter evelaid aside on the following Saturday their white albs which had beenput on after baptism.
albacore: See Albicore.
alban: A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta-percha by the action of alcohol or ether.
albanian: Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey.-- n.
albata: A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks,teapots, etc. British plate or German silver. See German silver,under German.
albatross: A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there areseveral species. They are the largest of sea birds, capable of long-continued flight, and are often seen at great distances from theland. They are found chiefly in the southern hemisphere.
albedo: Whiteness. Specifically
albeit: Even though; although; notwithstanding. Chaucer.Albeit so masked, Madam, I love the truth. Tennyson.
albert ware: A soft ornamental terra-cotta pottery, sold in the biscuitstate for decorating.
albertite: A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the countyof A.
albertype: A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced bymeans of a photographic negative.
albescence: The act of becoming white; whitishness.
albescent: Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.
albicant: Growing or becoming white.
albication: The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, orstreaks.
albicore: A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family,esp. Orcynus alalonga. One species (Orcynus thynnus), common in theMediterranean and Atlantic, is called in New England the horsemackerel; the tunny. [Written also albacore.]
albification: The act or process of making white. [Obs.]
albigensian: Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.
albiness: A female albino. Holmes.
albinism: The state or condition of being an albino
albinistic: Affected with albinism.
albino: A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by somedefect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin,hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state. An albino has askin of a milky hue, with hair of the same color, and eyes with deepred pupil and pink or blue iris. The term is also used of the loweranimals, as white mice, elephants, etc.; and of plants in a whitishcondition from the absence of chlorophyll. Amer. Cyc.
albinoism: The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.
albinotic: Affected with albinism.
albion: An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.In that nook-shotten isle of Albion. Shak.
albite: A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization,and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda. It is a commonconstituent of granite and of various igneous rocks. See Feldspar.
albolith: A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consistingchiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.
alborak: The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said tohave been carried up to heaven; a white mule.
albugineous: Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of anegg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., whichare perfectly white.
albugo: Same as Leucoma.
album: A white tablet on which anything was inscribed, as a list ofnames, etc.
album graecum: Dung of dogs or hyenas, which becomes white by exposure to air.It is used in dressing leather, and was formerly used in medicine.
albumen: Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seedin many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo. It is the flourypart in corn, wheat, and like grains, the oily part in poppy seeds,the fleshy part in the cocoanut, etc.
albumenize: To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with analbuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.
albumin: A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief andcharacteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum ofblood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid,also in many plants. It is soluble in water is coagulated by heat adby certain chemical reagents. Acid albumin, a modification of albuminproduced by the action of dilute acids. It is not coagulated by heat.-- Alkali albumin, albumin as modified by the action of alkalinesubstances; -- called also albuminate.
albuminate: A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin,and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed bythe union of albumin with another substance.
albuminiferous: Supplying albumen.
albuminimeter: An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in aliquid.
albuminin: The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds'eggs.
albuminiparous: Producing albumin.
albuminoid: Resembling albumin.-- n.
albuminoidal: Of the nature of an albuminoid.
albuminose: A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action ofnatural or artificial gastric juice. See Peptone.
albuminosis: A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminouselements in the blood.
albuminuria: A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.
albumose: A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by diluteacids or by an acid solution of pepsin. Used also in combination, asantialbumose, hemialbumose.
alburn: The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarlysilvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.
alburnous: Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnoussubstances.
alburnum: The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark andthe hard wood or duramen; sapwood.
albyn: Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland. T. Cambell.
alcade: Same as Alcaid.
alcahest: Same as Alkahest.
alcaic: Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b.c.-- n. A kind of verse, so called from Alcæus. One variety consistsof five feet, a spondee or iambic, an iambic, a long syllable, andtwo dactyls.
alcalde: A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc.Prescott.
alcaldia: The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building orchamber in which he conducts the business of his office.
alcalimeter: See Alkalimeter.
alcanna: An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna isobtained.
alcarraza: A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids byevaporation from the exterior surface.
alcayde: Same as Alcaid.
alcazar: A fortress; also, a royal palace. Prescott.
alcedo: A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher(Alcedo ispida). See Halcyon.
alchemically: In the manner of alchemy.
alchemist: One who practices alchemy.You are alchemist; make gold. Shak.
alchemistry: Alchemy. [Obs.]
alchemize: To change by alchemy; to transmute. Lovelace.
alchemy: See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.
alco: A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.
alcohol: A class of compounds analogous to vinic alcohol inconstitution. Chemically speaking, they are hydroxides of certainorganic radicals; as, the radical ethyl forms common or ethyl alcohol(C2H5OH); methyl forms methyl alcohol (CH3.OH) or wood spirit; amylforms amyl alcohol (C5H11.OH) or fusel oil, etc.
alcoholate: A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which thelatter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.Graham.
alcoholature: An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants. New Eng.Dict.
alcoholic: Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities;derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as,alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.
alcoholism: A diseased condition of the system, brought about by thecontinued use of alcoholic liquors.
alcoholize: An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with ascale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol,either by weight or volume. It is usually a form of hydrometer with aspecial scale.
alcoholometry: The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of purealcohol which spirituous liquors contain.
alcoran: The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).[Spelt also Alcoran.]
alcoranic: Of or pertaining to the Koran.
alcoranist: One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting alltraditions.
alcornoque: The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides ofBrazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia,used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or ofQuercus ilex, the cork tree.
alcove: A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into alarger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recessin a library.
alcyon: See Halcyon.
alcyonacea: A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is thetype. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.
alcyonaria: One of the orders of Anthozoa. It includes the Alcyonacea,Pennatulacea, and Gorgonacea.
alcyones: The kingfishers.
alcyonic: Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.
alcyonium: A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resemblingflowers with eight fringed rays. The term was also formerly used forcertain species of sponges.
alcyonoid: Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.-- n.
alday: Continually. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aldebaran: A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye ofTaurus; the Bull's Eye. It is the bright star in the group called theHyades.Now when Aldebaran was mounted high Above the shiny Cassiopeia'schair. Spenser.
aldehyde: A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained fromalcohol by certain of oxidation.
aldehydic: Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid. Miller.
alder: A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to thegenus Alnus. The wood is used by turners, etc.; the bark by dyers andtanners. In the U. S. the species of alder are usually shrubs orsmall trees. Black alder. (a) A European shrub (Rhamnus frangula);Alder buckthorn. (b) An American species of holly (Ilexverticillata), bearing red berries.
alder-liefest: Most beloved. [Obs.] Shak.
aldermancy: The office of an alderman.
aldermanic: Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristicof an alderman.
aldermanlike: Like or suited to an alderman.
aldermanly: Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.
aldermanship: The condition, position, or office of an alderman. Fabyan.
aldern: Made of alder.
alderney: One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the ChannelIslands. Alderneys are of a dun or tawny color and are often calledJersey cattle. See Jersey, 3.
aldine: An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) whichproceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, ofVenice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the signof the anchor and the dolphin. The term has also been applied tocertain elegant editions of English works.
aldol: A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of twomolecules of acetaldehyde
ale silver: A duty payable to the lord mayor of London by the sellers ofale within the city.
ale-knight: A pot companion. [Obs.]
aleak: In a leaking condition.
aleatory: Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatorycontract. Bouvier.
alebench: A bench in or before an alehouse. Bunyan.
aleberry: A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, andsops of bread.Their aleberries, caudles, possets. Beau. & Fl.
alecithal: Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which havelittle or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm. Balfour.
aleconner: Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale andbeer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London toinspect the measures used in public houses. But the office is asinecure. [Also called aletaster.] [Eng.]
alecost: The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoringale.
alectorides: A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.
alectoromachy: Cockfighting.
alectoromancy: See Alectryomancy.
alectryomachy: Cockfighting.
alectryomancy: Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on theletters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the orderin which the grains were eaten. Amer. Cyc.
alee: On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; theopposite of aweather. The helm of a ship is alee when pressed closeto the lee side. Hard alee, or Luff alee, an order to put the helm tothe lee side.
alegar: Sour ale; vinegar made of ale. Cecil.
aleger: Gay; cheerful; sprightly. [Obs.] Bacon.
alegge: To allay or alleviate; to lighten. [Obs.]That shall alegge this bitter blast. Spenser.
alehoof: Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).
alehouse: A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.Macaulay.
alem: The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.
alemannic: Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike Germantribes.
alembic: An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made ofglass or metal. It has mostly given place to the retort and wormstill.Used also metaphorically. The alembic of a great poet's imagination.Brimley.
alembroth: The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed ofthe chlorides of ammonium and mercury. It was formerly used as astimulant. Brande & C.
alencon lace: See under Lace.
alength: At full length; lenghtwise. Chaucer.
alepidote: Not having scales.-- n.
alepole: A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse. [Obs.]
aleppo grass: One of the cultivated forms of Andropogon Halepensis (syn.Sorghum Halepense). See Andropogon, below.
alert: An alarm from a real or threatened attack; a sudden attack;also, a bugle sound to give warning. "We have had an alert." Farrow.On the alert, on the lookout or watch against attack or danger; readyto act.
alertly: In an alert manner; nimbly.
alertness: The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness;nimbleness; activity.
alestake: A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse,as a sign; an alepole. At the end was commonly suspended a garland, abunch of leaves, or a "bush." [Obs.] Chaucer.
aletaster: See Aleconner. [Eng.]
alethiology: The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.Sir W. Hamilton.
alethoscope: An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as topresent them in their natural proportions and relations.
aleuromancy: Divination by means of flour. Encyc. Brit.
aleurometer: An instrument for determining the expansive properties, orquality, of gluten in flour. Knight.
aleuronat: Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flourin preparing bread for diabetic persons.
aleurone: An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ("proteingranules") in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be amodification of protoplasm.
aleuronic: Having the nature of aleurone. D. C. Eaton.
alevin: Young fish; fry.
alew: Halloo. [Obs.] Spenser.
alewife: A woman who keeps an alehouse. Gay.
alexandrine: Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian. Bancroft.
alexia: Alexipharmic. [Obs.]
alexipharmic: An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.
alexipyretic: Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile.-- n.
alexiteric: A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, andthe effects of poison in general. Brande & C.
alfalfa: The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California,Texas, etc.
alfenide: An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.
alferes: An ensign; a standard bearer. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.
alfet: A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plungedhis forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.
alfilaria: The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.
alfione: An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).
alforja: A saddlebag. [Sp. Amer.]
alfresco: In the open-air. Smollett.
alga: A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plantswhich includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse,sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc.
algal: Pertaining to, or like, algæ.
algaroba: A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which isa compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony. It was formerlyused in medicine as an emetic, purgative, and diaphoretic.
algarovilla: The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a SouthAmerican tree (Inga Marthæ). It is valuable for tanning leather, andas a dye.
algazel: The true gazelle.
algebra: That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations andproperties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols. It isapplicable to those relations that are true of every kind ofmagnitude.
algebraically: By algebraic process.
algebraist: One versed in algebra.
algebraize: To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.
algerian: Of or pertaining to Algeria.-- n.
algerine: Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.
algid: Cold; chilly. Bailey. Algid cholera (Med.), Asiatic cholera.
algidity: Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.),
algidness: Algidity. [Obs.]
algific: Producing cold.
algin: A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained fromcertain algæ.
algoid: Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.
algol: A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus,remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.
algological: Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.
algologist: One learned about algæ; a student of algology.
algology: The study or science of algæ or seaweeds.
algometer: An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure.It has a piston rod with a blunted tip which is pressed against theskin. -- Al*gom"e*try (#), n. -- Al`go*met"ric (#), *met"ric*al (#),a. --Al`go*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
algonkian: The Algonkian period or era, or system or group of systems.
algonquian: Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of thelinguistic families of North American Indians, their territoryformerly including practically all of Canada east of the 115thmeridian and south of Hudson's Bay and the part of the United Stateseast of the Mississippi and north of Tennessee and Virginia, with theexception of the territory occupied by the northern Iroquoian tribes.There are nearly 100,000 Indians of the Algonquian tribes, of whichthe strongest are the Ojibwas (Chippewas), Ottawas, Crees,Algonquins, Micmacs, and Blackfeet. -- n.
algor: Cold; chilliness.
algous: Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, orlike, seaweed.
alguazil: An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; aconstable. Prescott.
algum: Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8.
alhambra: The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.
alhenna: See Henna.
alibi: The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for acrime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place whenthe alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove analibi.
alibility: Quality of being alible.
alible: Nutritive; nourishing.
alicant: A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have beenmade near Alicant, in Spain. J. Fletcher.
alidade: The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant orastrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degreescut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell.
alien: To alienate; to estrange; to transfer, as property orownership. [R.] "It the son alien lands." Sir M. Hale.The prince was totally aliened from all thoughts of . . . themarriage. Clarendon.
alienability: Capability of being alienated. "The alienability of thedomain." Burke.
alienable: Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another;as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.
alienate: Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.O alienate from God. Milton.
alienation: A transfer of title, or a legal conveyance of property toanother.
alienator: One who alienates.
aliene: To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, toaliene an estate.
alienee: One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed toalienor.It the alienee enters and keeps possession. Blackstone.
alienist: One who treats diseases of the mind. Ed. Rev.
alienor: One who alienates or transfers property to another. Blackstone.
alife: On my life; dearly. [Obs.] "I love that sport alife." Beau. &Fl.
aliferous: Having wings, winged; aligerous. [R.]
aliform: Wing-shaped; winglike.
aligerous: Having wings; winged. [R.]
alight: Lighted; lighted up; in a flame. "The lamps were alight."Dickens.
align: To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bringinto line; to aline.
alignment: The ground-plan of a railway or other road, in distinction fromthe grades or profile.
alike: Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.[Now used only predicatively.]The darkness and the light are both alike to thee. Ps. cxxxix. 12.
alike-minded: Like-minded. [Obs.]
alimental: Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishingthe materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.
alimentally: So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality. SirT. Browne.
alimentariness: The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality. [R.]
alimentary: Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition;nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances. Alimentary canal,the entire channel, extending from the mouth to the anus, by whichaliments are conveyed through the body, and the useless partsejected.
alimentiveness: The instinct or faculty of appetite for food. [Chiefly inPhrenol.]
alimonious: Affording food; nourishing. [R.] "Alimonious humors." Harvey.
alimony: An allowance made to a wife out of her husband's estate orincome for her support, upon her divorce or legal separation fromhim, or during a suit for the same. Wharton. Burrill.
alinasal: Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.
aline: To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.Evelyn.
alineation: See Allineation.
alinement: Same as Alignment.
aliner: One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them intoline. Evelyn.
alioth: A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl inthe Dipper.
aliped: Wing-footed, as the bat.-- n.
aliphatic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied tocompounds having an openc-hain structure. The aliphatic compoundsthus include not only the fatty acids and other derivatives of theparaffin hydrocarbons, but also unsaturated compounds, as theethylene and acetylene series.
aliquant: An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does notdivide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of16. Opposed to aliquot.
aliquot: An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which willdivide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15.Opposed to aliquant.
aliseptal: Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.
alish: Like ale; as, an alish taste.
alisphenoid: The alisphenoid bone.
alitrunk: The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings areattached; the thorax. Kirby.
aliturgical: Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.Shipley.
aliunde: From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde;evidence aliunde.
alizari: The madder of the Levant. Brande & C.
alizarin: A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and nowproduced artificially from anthracene. It produces the Turkish reds.
alkahest: The fabled "universal solvent" of the alchemists; a menstruumcapable of dissolving all bodies.-- Al`ka*hes"tic, a.
alkalamide: One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia inwhich a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and anotherpart by acid, atoms or radicals.
alkalescent: Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.
alkali: One of a class of caustic bases, such as soda, potash, ammoma,and lithia, whose distinguishing peculiarities are solubility inalcohol and water, uniting with oils and fats to form soap,neutralizing and forming salts with acids, turning to brown severalvegetable yellows, and changing reddened litmus to blue. Fixedalkalies, potash and soda.-- Vegetable alkalies. Same as Alkaloids.-- Volatile alkali, ammonia, so called in distinction from the fixedalkalies.
alkali flat: A sterile plain, containing an excess of alkali, at the bottomof an undrained basin in an arid region; a playa.
alkali soil: Any one of various soils found in arid and semiarid regions,containing an unusual amount of soluble mineral salts whicheffloresce in the form of a powder or crust (usually white) in dryweather following rains or irrigation. The basis of these salts ismainly soda with a smaller amount of potash, and usually a littlelime and  magnesia. Two main classes of alkali are commonlydistinguished
alkali waste: Waste material from the manufacture of alkali; specif., sodawaste.
alkalifiable: Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.
alkalify: To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.
alkalimeter: An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or thequantity of alkali in a mixture.
alkalimetry: The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, orthe quantity present in alkaline mixtures.
alkaline: Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having theproperties of an alkali. Alkaline earths, certain substances, aslime, baryta, strontia, and magnesia, possessing some of thequalities of alkalies.-- Alkaline metals, potassium, sodium, cæsium, lithium, rubidium.-- Alkaline reaction, a reaction indicating alkalinity, as by theaction on limits, turmeric, etc.
alkalinity: The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.Thomson.
alkalious: Alkaline. [Obs.]
alkalizate: Alkaline. [Obs.] Boyle.
alkalization: The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; aconferring of alkaline qualities.
alkalize: To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkalito.
alkaloid: An organic base, especially one of a class of substancesoccurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies ofanimals.
alkanet: A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria,which gives a fine deep red color.
alkargen: Same as Cacodylic acid.
alkarsin: A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor,and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called alsoCadel's fuming liquid.
alkazar: See Alcazar.
alkekengi: An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalisalkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size ofa cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also calledwinter cherry, ground cherry, and strawberry tomato. D. C. Eaton.
alkermes: A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving itsname from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.
alkoran: The Mohammedan Scriptures. Same as Alcoran and Koran.
alkoranic: Same as Alcoranic.
alkoranist: Same as Alcoranist.
all: The whole number, quantity, or amount; the entire thing;everything included or concerned; the aggregate; the whole; totality;everything or every person; as, our all is at stake.Death, as the Psalmist saith, is certain to all. Shak.All that thou seest is mine. Gen. xxxi. 43.
all fours: All four legs of a quadruped; or the two legs and two arms of aperson. To be, go, or run, on all fours (Fig.), to be on the samefooting; to correspond (with) exactly; to be alike in all thecircumstances to be considered. "This example is on all fours withthe other." "No simile can go on all fours." Macaulay.
all hail: All health; -- a phrase of salutation or welcome.
all-a-mort: See Alamort.
all-hail: To salute; to greet. [Poet.]Whiles I stood rapt in the wonder of it, came missives from the king,who all-hailed me "Thane of Cawdor." Shak.
all-possessed: Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.[Colloq.]
alla breve: With one breve, or four minims, to measure, and sung fasterlike four crotchets; in quick common time; -- indicated in the timesignature by
allah: The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and theMohammedans generally.
allanite: A silicate containing a large amount of cerium. It is usuallyblack in color, opaque, and is related to epidote in form andcomposition.
allantoic: Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois. Allantoic acid.(Chem.) See Allantoin.
allantoidea: The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops anallantois. It includes reptiles, birds, and mammals.
allantoin: A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in theallantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acidand amniotic acid.
allatrate: To bark as a dog. [Obs.] Stubbes.
allay: To diminish in strength; to abate; to subside. "When the rageallays." Shak.
allayer: One who, or that which, allays.
allayment: An allaying; that which allays; mitigation. [Obs.]The like allayment could I give my grief. Shak.
allecret: A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. bythe Swiss. Fairholt.
allect: To allure; to entice. [Obs.]
allectation: Enticement; allurement. [Obs.] Bailey.
allective: Alluring. [Obs.]
alledge: See Allege. [Obs.]
allegation: A statement by a party of what he undertakes to prove, --usually applied to each separate averment; the charge or matterundertaken to be proved.
allege: To alleviate; to lighten, as a burden or a trouble. [Obs.]Wyclif.
allegeable: Capable of being alleged or affirmed.The most authentic examples allegeable in the case. South.
allegeance: Allegation. [Obs.]
allegement: Allegation. [Obs.]With many complaints and allegements. Bp. Sanderson.
alleger: One who affirms or declares.
allegge: See Alegge and Allay. [Obs.]
allegiant: Loyal. Shak.
allegorist: One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory. Hume.
allegorization: The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in anallegorical sense.
allegorize: To use allegory. Holland.
allegorizer: One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; anallegorist.
allegory: A figure representation which has a meaning beyond notiondirectly conveyed by the object painted or sculptured.
allegresse: Joy; gladsomeness.
allegretto: Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro.-- n.
allegro: Brisk, lively.-- n.
allelomorph: One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or inpairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited invarying proportion among the organisms themselves. Allelomorphs whichunder certain circumstances are themselves compound are calledhypallelomorphs. See Mendel's law. -- Al*le`lo*mor"phic (#), a.
allemande: A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in thereign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, likethose of Bach and Handel.
allemannic: See Alemannic.
allenarly: Solely; only. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
aller: Same as Alder, of all. [Obs.] Chaucer.
allerion: Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings. Burke.
alleviative: Tending to alleviate.-- n.
alleviator: One who, or that which, alleviaties.
alleviatory: Alleviative. Carlyle.
alley: Any passage having the entrance represented as wider than theexit, so as to give the appearance of length.
alleyed: Furnished with alleys; forming an alley. "An alleyed walk." SirW. Scott.
alleyway: An alley.
allfours: A game at cards, called "High, Low, Jack, and the Game."
allhallond: Allhallows. [Obs.] Shak.
allhallow: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.
allhallow eve: The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.
allhallowmas: The feast of All Saints.
allhallown: Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. [Obs.] "Allhallownsummer." Shak. (i. e., late summer; "Indian Summer").
allhallowtide: The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.
allheal: A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to someother plants.
alliable: Able to enter into alliance.
alliaceous: Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks,etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.
alliance: To connect by alliance; to ally. [Obs.]
alliant: An ally; a confederate. [Obs. & R.] Sir H. Wotton.
alliciency: Attractive power; attractiveness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
allicient: That attracts; attracting.-- n.
allied: United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.
alligate: To tie; to unite by some tie.Instincts alligated to their nature. Sir M. Hale.
alligation: A rule relating to the solution of questions concerning thecompounding or mixing of different ingredients, or ingredients ofdifferent qualities or values.
alligator: A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiarto America. It has a shorter and broader snout than the crocodile,and the large teeth of the lower jaw shut into pits in the upper jaw,which has no marginal notches. Besides the common species of thesouthern United States, there are allied species in South America.
alligator wrench: A kind of pipe wrench having a flaring jaw with teeth on oneside.
allignment: See Alignment.
allineate: To align. [R.] Herschel.
allision: The act of dashing against, or striking upon.The boisterous allision of the sea. Woodward.
alliteral: Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.
alliterate: To employ or place so as to make alliteration. Skeat.
alliteration: The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two ormore words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals;as in the following lines
alliterative: Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as,alliterative poetry.-- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ly, adv.-- Al*lit"er*a*tive*ness, n.
alliterator: One who alliterates.
allium: A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive,etc.
allmouth: The angler.
allness: Totality; completeness. [R.]The allness of God, including his absolute spirituality, supremacy,and eternity. R. Turnbull.
allnight: Light, fuel, or food for the whole night. [Obs.] Bacon.
allocatur: "Allowed." The word allocatur expresses the allowance of aproceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicialofficer.
allochroic: Changeable in color.
allochroite: See Garnet.
allochroous: Changing color.
allod: See Allodium.
allodial: Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; heldindependent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodiallands; allodial system. Blackstone.
allodialism: The allodial system.
allodialist: One who holds allodial land.
allodially: By allodial tenure.
allodiary: One who holds an allodium.
allodium: Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of theowner; real estate held in absolute independence, without beingsubject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior. It isthus opposed to feud. Blackstone. Bouvier.
allogamous: Characterized by allogamy.
allogamy: Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from anotherof the same species; cross-fertilization.
allogeneous: Different in nature or kind. [R.]
allograph: A writing or signature made by some person other than any ofthe parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.
allomerism: Variability in chemical constitution without variation incrystalline form.
allomerous: Characterized by allomerism.
allomorphic: Of or pertaining to allomorphism.
allomorphism: The property which constitutes an allomorph; the changeinvolved in becoming an allomorph.
allonge: A thrust or pass; a lunge.
allonymous: Published under the name of some one other than the author.
alloo: To incite dogs by a call; to halloo. [Obs.]
allopath: An allopathist. Ed. Rev.
allopathic: Of or pertaining to allopathy.
allopathically: In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.
allopathist: One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.
allopathy: That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease bythe use of remedies which produce effects different from thoseproduced by the special disease treated; -- a term invented byHahnemann to designate the ordinary practice, as opposed tohomeopathy.
alloquy: A speaking to another; an address. [Obs.]
allotheism: The worship of strange gods. Jer. Taylor.
allotment: The allowance of a specific amount of scrip or of a particularthing to a particular person. Cottage allotment, an allotment of asmall portion of land to a country laborer for garden cultivation.[Eng.]
allotriophagy: A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.
allotrophic: Of or pertaining to allotropism.-- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv. Allotropic state, the severalconditions which occur in a case of allotropism.
allotropicity: Allotropic property or nature.
allotropize: To change in physical properties but not in substance. [R.]
allottable: Capable of being allotted.
allottee: One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment ismade.
allotter: One who allots.
allottery: Allotment. [Obs.] Shak.
allow: To admit; to concede; to make allowance or abatement.Allowing still for the different ways of making it. Addison.To allow of, to permit; to admit. Shak.
allowableness: The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness;exemption from prohibition or impropriety. South.
allowably: In an allowable manner.
allowance: A customary deduction from the gross weight of goods, differentin different countries, such as tare and tret.
allowedly: By allowance; admittedly. Shenstone.
alloxan: An oxidation product of uric acid. It is of a pale reddishcolor, readily soluble in water or alcohol.
alloxanate: A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positiveradical.
alloxanic: Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained bythe action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.
alloxantin: A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and verydilute nitric acid.
alloy: To form a metallic compound.Gold and iron alloy with ease. Ure.
alloy steel: Any steel containing a notable quantity of some other metalalloyed with the iron, usually chromium, nickel, manganese, tungsten,or vanadium.
alloyage: The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination oralloy.
allspice: The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the WestIndies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic;Jamaica pepper; pimento. It has been supposed to combine the flavorof cinnamon, nutmegs, and cloves; and hence the name. The name isalso given to other aromatic shrubs; as, the Carolina allspice(Calycanthus floridus); wild allspice (Lindera benzoin), called alsospicebush, spicewood, and feverbush.
allthing: Altogether. [Obs.] Shak.
allude: To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to havereference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; --followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.These speeches . . . do seem to allude unto such ministerial garmentsas were then in use. Hooker.
allumette: A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.
alluminor: An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner. [Obs.]Cowell.
allurance: Allurement. [R.]
allure: To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by theoffer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by somethingflattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.With promised joys allured them on. Falconer.The golden sun in splendor likest Heaven Allured his eye. Milton.
allurer: One who, or that which, allures.
alluring: That allures; attracting; charming; tempting.-- Al*lur"ing*ly, adv.-- Al*lur"ing*ness, n.
allusively: Figuratively [Obs.]; by way of allusion; by implication,suggestion, or insinuation.
allusiveness: The quality of being allusive.
allusory: Allusive. [R.] Warburton.
alluvial: Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relatingto the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place anddeposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations,deposits.
alluvion: An accession of land gradually washed to the shore or bank bythe flowing of water. See Accretion.
alluvious: Alluvial. [R.] Johnson.
alluvium: Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter,made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanentlysubmerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas. Lyell.
allwhere: Everywhere. [Archaic]
allwork: Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork,that is, a general servant.
ally: See Alley, a marble or taw.
allyl: An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlicand mustard.
allylene: A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene;propine. CH3.C.CH
alma mater: A college or seminary where one is educated.
almagest: The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which containsnearly all that is known of the astronomical observations andtheories of the ancients. The name was extended to other similarworks.
almagra: A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain. Itis the sil atticum of the ancients. Under the name of Indian red itis used for polishing glass and silver.
almanac: A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, towhich astronomical data and various statistics are often added, suchas the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses,hours of full tide, stated festivals of churches, terms of courts,etc. Nautical almanac, an almanac, or year book, containingastronomical calculations (lunar, stellar, etc.), and otherinformation useful to mariners.
almandine: The common red variety of garnet.
almendron: The lofty Brazil-nut tree.
almery: See Ambry. [Obs.]
almesse: See Alms. [Obs.]
almightily: With almighty power.
almightiness: Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might. Jer.Taylor.
almner: An almoner. [Obs.] Spenser.
almond: One of the tonsils. Almond oil, fixed oil expressed from sweetor bitter almonds.-- Oil of bitter almonds, a poisonous volatile oil obtained frombitter almonds by maceration and distillation; benzoic aldehyde.-- Imitation oil of bitter almonds, nitrobenzene.-- Almond tree (Bot.), the tree bearing the almond.-- Almond willow (Bot.), a willow which has leaves that are of alight green on both sides; almond-leaved willow (Salix amygdalina).Shenstone.
almond furnace: A kind of furnace used in refining, to separate the metal fromcinders and other foreign matter. Chambers.
almondine: See Almandine
almoner: One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religioushouses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another,as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.
almonership: The office of an almoner.
almonry: The place where an almoner resides, or where alms aredistributed.
almose: Alms. [Obs.] Cheke.
almost: Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian. Acts xxvi. 28.Almost never, scarcely ever.-- Almost nothing, scarcely anything.
almry: See Almonry. [Obs.]
alms: Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money,food, or clothing; a gift of charity.A devout man . . . which gave much alms to the people. Acts x. 2.Alms are but the vehicles of prayer. Dryden.Tenure by free alms. See Frankalmoign. Blackstone.
almsdeed: An act of charity. Acts ix. 36.
almsfolk: Persons supported by alms; almsmen. [Archaic] Holinshed.
almsgiver: A giver of alms.
almsgiving: The giving of alms.
almshouse: A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.
almucantar: A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circleor parallel of altitude. Two stars which have the same almucantarhave the same altitude. See Almacantar. [Archaic] Almucanter staff,an ancient instrument, having an arc of fifteen degrees, formerlyused at sea to take observations of the sun's amplitude at the timeof its rising or setting, to find the variation of the compass.
almuce: Same as Amice, a hood or cape.
almude: A measure for liquids in several countries. In Portugal theLisbon almude is about 4.4, and the Oporto almude about 6.6, gallonsU. S. measure. In Turkey the "almud" is about 1.4 gallons.
alnage: Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for suchmeasurement.
alnager: A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England,whose duty was to inspect act measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it aseal.
aloe: The wood of the agalloch. [Obs.] Wyclif.
aloes wood: See Agalloch.
aloetic: Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.
aloft: In the top; at the mast head, or on the higher yards orrigging; overhead; hence (Fig. and Colloq.), in or to heaven.
alogian: One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and theApocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos. Shipley.
alogy: Unreasonableness; absurdity. [Obs.]
aloin: A bitter purgative principle in aloes.
alomancy: Divination by means of salt. [Spelt also halomancy.] Morin.
alone: Solely; simply; exclusively.
alonely: Only; merely; singly. [Obs.]This said spirit was not given alonely unto him, but unto all hisheirs and posterity. Latimer.
aloneness: A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness. [R.]Bp. Montagu.
along: By the length of, as distinguished from across. "Along thelowly lands." Dryden.The kine . . . went along the highway. 1 Sam. vi. 12.
alongshore: Along the shore or coast.
alongshoreman: See Longshoreman.
alongside: Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as,bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.
alongst: Along. [Obs.]
aloof: Same as Alewife.
aloofness: State of being aloof. Rogers (1642).The . . . aloofness of his dim forest life. Thoreau.
alopecist: A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.
alose: To praise. [Obs.]
alouatte: One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America.See Howler, 2.
aloud: With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice. Isa. lviii. 1.
alow: Below; in a lower part. "Aloft, and then alow." Dryden.
alp: A bullfinch. Rom. of R.
alpaca: An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair,supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.
alpen: Of or pertaining to the Alps. [R.] "The Alpen snow." J.Fletcher.
alpenglow: A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits ofmountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after thesummits have passed into shadow, supposed to be due to a curvingdownward (refraction) of the light rays from the west resulting fromthe cooling of the air.
alpenstock: A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.Cheever.
alpestrine: Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrinediseases, etc.
alpha: The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, andhence used to denote the beginning.In am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and thelast. Rev. xxii. 13.
alpha paper: A sensitized paper for obtaining positives by artificial light.It is coated with gelatin containing silver bromide and chloride.[Eng.]
alpha rays: Rays of relatively low penetrating power emitted by radium andother radioactive substances, and shown to consist of positivelycharged particles (perhaps particles of helium) having enormousvelocities but small masses. They are slightly deflected by a strongmagnetic or electric field.
alphabet: To designate by the letters of the alphabet; to arrangealphabetically. [R.]
alphabetarian: A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian. Abp. Sancroft.
alphabetically: In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.
alphabetics: The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.
alphabetism: The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet. Encyc. Brit.
alphol: A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as anantiseptic and antirheumatic.
alphonsine: Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252-1284). Alphonsine tables, astronomical tables prepared under thepatronage of Alphonso the Wise. Whewell.
alpigene: Growing in Alpine regions.
alpinist: A climber of the Alps.
alquifou: A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters togive a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.
already: Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future;by this time; previously. "Joseph was in Egypt already." Exod. i. 5.I say unto you, that Elias is come already. Matt. xvii. 12.
alsatian: Pertaining to Alsatia.
alsike: A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifoliumhybridum.
alt: The higher part of the scale. See Alto. To be in alt, to be inan exalted state of mind.
altarpiece: The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar;reredos.
altarwise: In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of achurch with its ends towards the north and south. Shipley.
altazimuth: An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.
alter: To become, in some respects, different; to vary; to change; as,the weather alters almost daily; rocks or minerals alter by exposure."The law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not." Dan. vi. 8.
alterability: The quality of being alterable; alterableness.
alterable: Capable of being altered.Our condition in this world is mutable and uncertain, alterable by athousand accidents. Rogers.
alterableness: The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.
alterably: In an alterable manner.
alterant: Altering; gradually changing. Bacon.
alterative: Causing ateration. Specifically:
altercate: The contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; towrangle.
altercation: Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat oranger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest. "Stormy altercations."Macaulay.
altercative: Characterized by wrangling; scolding. [R.] Fielding.
alterity: The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise. [R.]For outness is but the feeling of otherness (alterity) renderedintuitive, or alterity visually represented. Coleridge.
altern: Acting by turns; alternate. Milton. Altern base (Trig.), asecond side made base, in distinction from a side previously regardedas base.
alternacy: Alternateness; alternation. [R.] Mitford.
alternant: Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.
alternat: A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence amongrepresentatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and atother times in regular order. The practice obtains in the signing oftreaties and conventions between nations.
alternate: Distributed, as leaves, singly at different heights of thestem, and at equal intervals as respects angular divergence. Gray.Alternate alligation. See Alligation.-- Alternate angles (Geom.), the internal and angles made by twolines with a third, on opposite sides of it. It the parallels AB, CD,are cut by the line EF, the angles AGH, GHD, as also the angles BGHand GHC, are called alternate angles.-- Alternate generation. (Biol.) See under Generation.
alternately: By alternation; when, in a proportion, the antecedent term iscompared with antecedent, and consequent.
alternateness: The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.
alternating current: A current which periodically changes or reverses its directionof flow.
alternation: Permutation.
alternatively: In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of oneout of two things.
alternativeness: The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choicebetween two.
alternator: An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternatingcurrents.
alternity: Succession by turns; alternation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
altheine: Asparagine.
althing: The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n.,8.
altho: Although. [Reformed spelling] Alt"horn`, n. Etym
althorn: An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively inmilitary music, often replacing the French horn. Grove.
although: Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding;though.Although all shall be offended, yet will no I. Mark xiv. 29.
altiloquence: Lofty speech; pompous language. [R.] Bailey.
altiloquent: High-sounding; pompous in speech. [R.] Bailey.
altimeter: An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant,etc. Knight.
altimetry: The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.
altincar: See Tincal.
altiscope: An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person tosee an object in spite of intervening objects.
altisonant: High-sounding; lofty or pompous. Skelton.
altisonous: Altisonant.
altissimo: The part or notes situated above F in alt.
altitude: The elevation of a point, or star, or other celestial object,above the horizon, measured by the arc of a vertical circleintercepted between such point and the horizon. It is either true orapparent; true when measured from the rational or real horizon,apparent when from the sensible or apparent horizon.
altitudinal: Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.
altitudinarian: Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc. [R.] Coleridge.
altivolant: Flying high. [Obs.] Blount.
alto: Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor,voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices,between in tenor and soprano. In instrumental music it now signifiesthe tenor.
alto-cumulus: A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayishglobular cloudlets with shaded  portions, often grouped in flocks orrows.
alto-relievo: Alto-rilievo.
alto-rilievo: High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project morethan half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or inalto-rilievo.
alto-stratus: A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and ata lower level.
altometer: A theodolite. Knight.
altrical: Like the articles.
altrices: Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young arehatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to requirethe care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to præcoces.
altruism: Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to theinterests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism orselfishness. [Recent] J. S. Mill.
altruist: One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.
altruistic: Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to Ant:egoistic or Ant
aludel: One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed asto be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another insuccession; -- used in the process of sublimation. Ure.
alula: A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.
alular: Pertaining to the alula.
alum: A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element(esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium. It has twenty-four moleculesof water of crystallization.
alum root: A North American herb (Heuchera Americana) of the Saxifragefamily, whose root has astringent properties.
alum stone: A subsulphate of alumina and potash; alunite.
alumen: Alum.
alumina: One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium andthree of oxygen, Al2O3.
aluminate: A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by thesubstitution of a metal for the hydrogen.
aluminated: Combined with alumina.
alumine: Alumina. Davy.
aluminic: Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.
aluminiferous: Containing alum.
aluminiform: pertaining the form of alumina.
aluminium: The metallic base of alumina. This metal is white, but with abluish tinge, and is remarkable for its resistance to oxidation, andfor its lightness, pertaining a specific gravity of about 2.6. Atomicweight 27.08. Symbol Al. Aluminium bronze or gold, a pale gold-colored alloy of aluminium and copper, used for journal bearings,etc.
aluminize: To treat impregnate with alum; to alum.
aluminography: Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminiumplates, after the manner of ordinary lithography. --A*lu`mi*no*graph"ic (#), a.
aluminous: Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminousminerals, aluminous solution.
aluminum: See Aluminium.
alumish: Somewhat like alum.
alumna: A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.
alumnus: A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminaryof learning.
alunite: Alum stone.
alunogen: A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of minesand quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also calledfeather alum, and hair salt.
alure: A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.The sides of every street were covered with fresh alures of marble.T. Warton.
alutation: The tanning or dressing of leather. [Obs.] Blount.
alveary: The hollow of the external ear. Quincy.
alveated: Formed or vaulted like a beehive.
alveolar: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells,sacs, or sockets. Alveolar processes, the processes of the maxillarybones, containing the sockets of the teeth.
alveolary: Alveolar. [R.]
alveolate: Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.
alveole: Same as Alveolus.
alveoliform: Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, orcavities.
alveolus: A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil
alveus: The channel of a river. Weate.
alvine: Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines;as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.
alway: Always. [Archaic or Poetic]I would not live alway. Job vii. 16.
alyssum: A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort. The sweet alyssum (A.maritimum), cultivated for bouquets, bears small, white, sweet-scented flowers.
am: The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicativemode, present tense. See Be.God said unto Moses, I am that am. Exod. iii. 14.
amability: Lovableness. Jer. Taylor.
amacratic: Amasthenic. Sir J. Herschel.
amadavat: The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estreldaamandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting. The female is olivebrown; the male, in summer, mostly crimson; -- called also redwaxbill. [Written also amaduvad and avadavat.]
amadou: A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletusand Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk. It hasbeen employed as a styptic by surgeons, but its common use is astinder, for which purpose it is prepared by soaking it in a strongsolution of niter. Ure.
amain: To lower, as a sail, a yard, etc.
amalgam: A native compound of mercury and silver.
amalgama: Same as Amalgam.They divided this their amalgama into a number of incoherentrepublics. Burke.
amalgamate: Coalesced; united; combined.
amalgamative: Characterized by amalgamation.
amalgamator: One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically
amalgamize: To amalgamate. [R.]
amanita: A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceæ,characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores. Thespecies resemble edible mushrooms, and are frequently mistaken forthem. Amanita muscaria, syn. Agaricus muscarius, is the fly amanita,or fly agaric; and A. phalloides is the death cup.
amanitine: The poisonous principle of some fungi.
amanuensis: A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, orto copy what another has written.
amaracus: A fragrant flower. Tennyson.
amarant: Amaranth, 1. [Obs.] Milton.
amarantaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe amaranth is the type.
amaranth: A genus of ornamental annual plants (Amaranthus) of manyspecies, with green, purplish, or crimson flowers.
amaranthine: Same as Amaranth.
amarine: A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil ofbitter almonds.
amaritude: Bitterness. [R.]
amass: To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of;to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass wordsor phrases.The life Homer has been written by amassing all the traditions andhints the writers could meet with. Pope.
amassable: Capable of being amassed.
amasser: One who amasses.
amassette: An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors onthe stone in the process of grinding.
amassment: An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or numberbrought together; an accumulation.An amassment of imaginary conceptions. Glanvill.
amasthenic: Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certainkind of lens; amacratic.
amate: To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt. [Obs. or Archaic]The Silures, to amate the new general, rumored the overthrow greaterthan was true. Milton.
amateur: A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science asto music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, fromtaste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.
amateurish: In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like thework of an amateur.-- Am`a*teur"ish*ly, adv.-- Am`a*teur"ish*ness, n.
amateurism: The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.
amateurship: The quality or character of an amateur.
amative: Full of love; amatory.
amativeness: The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity tolove. Combe.
amatorial: Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as,amatorial verses.
amatorially: In an amatorial manner.
amatorian: Amatory. [R.] Johnson.
amatorious: Amatory. [Obs.] "Amatorious poem." Milton.
amatory: Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as,amatory potions.
amaurosis: A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the opticnerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- calledalso gutta serena, the "drop serene" of Milton.
amaurotic: Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics ofamaurosis.
amaze: To be astounded. [Archaic] B. Taylor.
amazedly: In amazement; with confusion or astonishment. Shak.
amazedness: The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise,or wonder. Bp. Hall.
amazeful: Full of amazement. [R.]
amazing: Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace.-- A*maz"ing*ly, adv.
amazon: A name numerous species of South American parrots of the genusChrysotis Amazon ant (Zoöl.), a species of ant (Polyergus rufescens),of Europe and America. They seize by conquest the larvæ and nymphsother species and make slaves of them in their own nests.
amazonian: A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.
ambages: A circuit; a winding. Hence
ambaginous: Ambagious. [R.]
ambagious: Circumlocutory; circuitous. [R.]
ambagitory: Ambagious. [R.]
ambassadorial: Of or pertaining to an ambassador. H. Walpole.
ambassadorship: The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.
ambassadress: A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador. Prescott.
ambassage: Same as Embassage. [Obs. or R.] Luke xiv. 32.
ambassy: See Embassy, the usual spelling. Helps.
amber: A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as afossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore inmany places. It takes a fine polish, and is used for pipemouthpieces, beads, etc., and as a basis for a fine varnish. Byfriction, it becomes strongly electric.
amber fish: A fish of the southern Atlantic coast (Seriola Carolinensis.)
amber room: A room formerly in the Czar's Summer Palace in Russia, whichwas richly decorated with walls and fixtures made from amber.  Theamber was removed by occupying German troops during the Second WorldWar and has, as of 1997, never been recovered.  The room is beingrecreated from old photographs by Russian artisans. PJC
amber seed: Seed of the Hibiscus abelmoschus, somewhat resembling millet,brought from Egypt and the West Indies, and having a flavor like thatof musk; musk seed. Chambers.
amber tree: A species of Anthospermum, a shrub with evergreen leaves,which, when bruised, emit a fragrant odor.
ambergrease: See Ambergris.
ambergris: A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in theIndian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbidsecretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physetermacrocephalus), which is believed to be in all cases its true origin.In color it is white, ash-gray, yellow, or black, and oftenvariegated like marble. The floating masses are sometimes from sixtyto two hundred and twenty-five pounds in weight. It is whollyvolatilized as a white vapor at 212º Fahrenheit, and is highly valuedin perfumery. Dana.
ambes-as: Ambs-ace. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ambidexter: Using both hands with equal ease. Smollett.
ambidexterity: A juror's taking of money from the both parties for a verdict.
ambidextral: Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-handside. Earle.
ambidextrously: In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.
ambidextrousness: The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.
ambient: Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing. "Ambientair." Milton. "Ambient clouds." Pope.
ambigenous: Of two kinds. (Bot.)
ambigu: An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at thesame time.
ambiguity: The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness oruncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language,arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocalword or expression.No shadow of ambiguity can rest upon the course to be pursued. I.Taylor.The words are of single signification, without any ambiguity. South.
ambiguous: Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect tosignification; capable of being understood in either of two or morepossible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguousexpression.What have been thy answers What but dark, Ambiguous, and with doublesense deluding Milton.
ambiguously: In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.
ambiguousness: Ambiguity.
ambilevous: Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.[R.] Sir T. Browne.
ambiloquy: Doubtful or ambiguous language. [Obs.] Bailey.
ambiparous: Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers andleaves; -- applied to a bud.
ambit: Circuit or compass.His great parts did not live within a small ambit. Milward.
ambition: To seek after ambitiously or eagerly; to covet. [R.]Pausanias, ambitioning the sovereignty of Greece, bargains withXerxes for his daughter in marriage. Trumbull.
ambitionist: One excessively ambitious. [R.]
ambitionless: Devoid of ambition. Pollok.
ambitiously: In an ambitious manner.
ambitiousness: The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.
ambitus: A canvassing for votes.
ambler: A horse or a person that ambles.
amblingly: With an ambling gait.
amblotic: Tending to cause abortion.
amblygon: An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.[Obs.]
amblygonal: Obtuse-angled. [Obs.] Hutton.
amblyopic: Of or pertaining to amblyopy. Quain.
amblypoda: A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in theTertiary formation of the United States.
ambo: A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christianchurches. Gwilt.
ambon: Same as Ambo.
amboyna button: A chronic contagious affection of the skin, prevalent in thetropics.
amboyna pine: The resiniferous tree Agathis Dammara, of the Moluccas.
amboyna wood: A beautiful mottled and curled wood, used in cabinetwork. It isobtained from the Pterocarpus Indicus of Amboyna, Borneo, etc.
ambreate: A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base orpositive radical.
ambreic: Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid producedby digesting ambrein in nitric acid.
ambrein: A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent ofambergris.
ambrite: A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.
ambrose: A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3. Turner.
ambrosia beetle: A bark beetle that feeds on ambrosia.
ambrosiac: Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious. [R.]"Ambrosiacodors." B. Jonson.
ambrosially: After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully. "Smeltambrosially." Tennyson.
ambrosian: Ambrosial. [R.] . Jonson.
ambrosin: An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing thefigure of St. Ambrose on horseback.
ambrotype: A picture taken on a place of prepared glass, in which thelights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by adark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.
ambs-ace: Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence
ambulacral: Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacralossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.
ambulacriform: Having the form of ambulacra.
ambulant: Walking; moving from place to place. Gayton.
ambulate: To walk; to move about. [R.] Southey.
ambulation: The act of walking. Sir T. Browne.
ambulative: Walking. [R.]
ambulatorial: Ambulatory; fitted for walking. Verrill.
ambulatory: Not yet fixed legally, or settled past alteration; alterable;as, the dispositions of a will are ambulatory until the death of thetestator.
amburry: Same as Anbury.
ambuscade: The body of troops lying in ambush.
ambuscado: Ambuscade. [Obs.] Shak.
ambuscadoed: Posted in ambush; ambuscaded. [Obs.]
ambush: To lie in wait, for the purpose of attacking by surprise; tolurk.Nor saw the snake that ambushed for his prey. Trumbull.
ambusher: One lying in ambush.
ambushment: An ambush. [Obs.] 2 Chron. xiii. 13.
ambustion: A burn or scald. Blount.
amebean: See Am.
amel: Enamel. [Obs.] Boyle.
amelcorn: A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- calledalso French rice.
ameliorable: Capable of being ameliorated.
ameliorate: To make better; to improve; to meliorate.In every human being there is a wish to ameliorate his own condition.Macaulay.
amelioration: The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated;making or becoming better; improvement; melioration. "Amelioration ofhuman affairs." J. S. Mill.
ameliorative: Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement;as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.
ameliorator: One who ameliorates.
amen: An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So beit. At the end of a creed, it is a solemn asseveration of belief.When it introduces a declaration, it is equivalent to truly, verily.It is used as a noun, to demote
amenability: The quality of being amenable; amenableness. Coleridge.
amenable: Easy to be led; governable, as a woman by her husband. [Obs.]Jacob.
amenableness: The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answercharges; answerableness.
amenably: In an amenable manner.
amenage: To manage. [Obs.] Spenser.
amenance: Behavior; bearing. [Obs.] Spenser.
amend: To change or modify in any way for the better; as,(a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous,faulty, and the like;(b) by supplying deficiencies;(c) by substituting something else in the place of what is removed;to rectify.Mar not the thing that can not be amended. Shak.An instant emergency, granting no possibility for revision, oropening for amended thought. De Quincey.We shall cheer her sorrows, and amend her blood, by wedding her to aNorman. Sir W. Scott.To amend a bill, to make some change in the details or provisions ofa bill or measure while on its passage, professedly for itsimprovement.
amendable: Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error.-- A*mend"a*ble*ness, n.
amendatory: Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory. Bancroft.
amende: A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.Amende honorable(#). (Old French Law) A species of infamouspunishment in which the offender, being led into court with a ropeabout his neck, and a lighted torch in his hand, begged pardon of hisGod, the court, etc. In popular language, the phrase now denotes apublic apology or recantation, and reparation to an injured party,for improper language or treatment.
amender: One who amends.
amendful: Much improving. [Obs.]
amendment: Correction of an error in a writ or process.
amends: Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation. [Nowconst. with sing. verb.] "An honorable amends." Addison.Yet thus far fortune maketh us amends. Shak.
amenity: The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respectto situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness;civility; suavity; gentleness.A sweetness and amenity of temper. Buckle.This climate has not seduced by its amenities. W. Howitt.
amenorrhoea: Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.
amenorrhoeal: Pertaining to amenorrhoea.
ament: A species of inflorescence; a catkin.The globular ament of a buttonwood. Coues.
amentia: Imbecility; total want of understanding.
amentiferous: Bearing catkins. Balfour.
amentiform: Shaped like a catkin.
amentum: Same as Ament.
amenuse: To lessen. [Obs.] Chaucer.
amerceable: Liable to be amerced.
amercement: The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court;also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed. It differs from a fine,in thatthe latter is, or was originally, a fixed and certain sum prescribedby statue for an offense; but an amercement is arbitrary. Hence, theact or practice of affeering. [See Affeer.] Blackstone.
amercer: One who amerces.
amerciament: Same as Amercement. Mozley & W.
american: A native of America; -- originally applied to the aboriginalinhabitants, but now applied to the descendants of Europeans born inAmerica, and especially to the citizens of the United States.The name American must always exalt the pride of patriotism.Washington.
american plan: In hotels, aplan upon which guests pay for both room and boardby the day, week, or other convenient period; -- contrasted withEuropean plan.
american protective association: A secret organization in the United States, formed in Iowa in1887, ostensibly for the protection of American institutions bykeeping Roman Catholics out of public office. Abbrev. commonly to A.P .A.
americanization: The process of Americanizing.
americanize: To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs,ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.
ames-ace: Same as Ambs-ace.
amess: Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.
ametabola: A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.[Written also Ametabolia.]
ametabolian: Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.
amethodist: One without method; a quack. [Obs.]
amethyst: A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violetcolor, of different shades. It is much used as a jeweler's stone.Oriental amethyst, the violet-blue variety of transparentcrystallized corundum or sapphire.
ametropia: Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye.-- Am`e*trop"ic, a.
amharic: Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, theAmharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic.-- n.
amia: A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined toNorth America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie,and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.
amiability: The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness ofdisposition.Every excellency is a degree of amiability. Jer. Taylor.
amiableness: The quality of being amiable; amiability.
amiably: In an amiable manner.
amianth: See Amianthus. [Poetic]
amianthiform: Resembling amianthus in form.
amianthoid: Resembling amianthus.
amianthus: Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.
amic: Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix;as, amic acid; phosphamic acid. Amic acid (Chem.), one of a class ofnitrogenized acids somewhat resembling amides.
amicability: The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness. Ash.
amicable: Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; afterthe manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, orarrangement.That which was most remarkable in this contest was . . . the amicablemanner in which it was managed. Prideoux.Amicable action (Law.), an action commenced and prosecuted byamicable consent of the parties, for the purpose of obtaining adecision of the court on some matter of law involved in it. Bouvier.Burrill.-- Amicable numbers (Math.), two numbers, each of which is equal tothe sum of all the aliquot parts of the other.
amicableness: The quality of being amicable; amicability.
amicably: In an amicable manner.
amice: A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but nowabout the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Churchwhile saying Mass.
amid: See Amidst.
amide: A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid elementor radical. It may also be regarded as ammonia in which one or morehydrogen atoms have been replaced by an acid atom or radical. Acidamide, a neutral compound formed by the substitution of the amidogroup for hydroxyl in an acid.
amidin: Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, likehorn. It is soluble in cold water.
amido: Containing, or derived from, amidogen. Amido acid, an acid inwhich a portion of the nonacid hydrogen has been replaced by theamido group. The amido acids are both basic and acid.-- Amido group, amidogen, NH2.
amidogen: A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state,which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one ofits hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group,and in composition represented by the form amido.
amidol: A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as adeveloper.
amidships: In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, andsometimes also her breadth. Totten.
amigo: A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islandsto friendly natives.
amine: One of a class of strongly basic substances derived fromammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atomor radical.
aminol: A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containingamines, used as a local antiseptic.
amioid: Like or pertaining to the Amioidei.-- n.
amioidei: An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin andGanoidei.
amir: Same as Ameer.
amish: The Amish Mennonites.
amiss: Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.What error drives our eyes and ears amiss Shak.Ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss. James iv. 3.To take (an act, thing) amiss, to impute a wrong motive to (an act orthing); to take offense at' to take unkindly; as, you must not takethese questions amiss.
amissibility: The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost. [R.]Notions of popular rights and the amissibility of sovereign power formisconduct were alternately broached by the two great religiousparties of Europe. Hallam.
amissible: Liable to be lost. [R.]
amission: Deprivation; loss. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
amit: To lose. [Obs.]A lodestone fired doth presently amit its proper virtue. Sir T.Browne.
amitosis: Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of thenucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation ofchromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct celldivision; -- opposed to mitosis. It is not the usual mode ofdivision, and is believed by many to occur chiefly in highlyspecialized cells which are incapable of long-continuedmultiplication, in transitory structures, and in those in earlystages of degeneration.
amitotic: Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed tomitotic.
amity: Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies,or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty ofamity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.To live on terms of amity with vice. Cowper.
amma: An abbes or spiritual mother.
ammeter: A contraction of amperometer or ampèremeter.
ammiral: An obsolete form of admiral. "The mast of some great ammiral."Milton.
ammite: Oölite or roestone; -- written also hammite. [Obs.]
ammonal: An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium andnitrate of ammonium.
ammonia: A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with apungent smell and taste
ammoniacal fermentation: Any fermentation process by which ammonia is formed, as that bywhich urea is converted into ammonium carbonate when urine is exposedto the air.
ammoniated: Combined or impregnated with ammonia.
ammonic: Of or pertaining to ammonia.
ammonite: A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus. There aremany genera and species, and all are extinct, the typical formshaving existed only in the Mesozoic age, when they were exceedinglynumerous. They differ from the nautili in having the margins of thesepta very much lobed or plaited, and the siphuncle dorsal. Alsocalled serpent stone, snake stone, and cornu Ammonis.
ammonitiferous: Containing fossil ammonites.
ammonitoidea: An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant inMesozoic rocks. See Ammonite.
ammonium: A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of astrongly basic element like the alkali metals.
ammunition: To provide with ammunition.
amnesia: Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease,in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place ofthose he wishes to employ. Quian.
amnesic: Of or pertaining to amnesia. "Amnesic or coördinate defects."Quian.
amnestic: Causing loss of memory.
amnesty: To grant amnesty to.
amnicolist: One who lives near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.
amnigenous: Born or bred in, of, or near a river. [Obs.] Bailey.
amnion: A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, andreptiles.
amnios: Same as Amnion.
amniota: That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic lifethe envelope called the amnion. It comprises the reptiles, the birds,and the mammals.
amniotic: Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as,the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac. Amniotic acid. (Chem.) [R.] SeeAllantoin.
amoeba: A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing manychanges of form at will. See Rhizopoda.
amoebaeum: A poem in which persons are represented at speakingalternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.
amoebea: That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba andsimilar forms.
amoebean: Alternately answering.
amoebian: One of the Amoebea.
amoebous: Like an amoeba in structure.
amole: Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, asthe roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc. [Sp.Amer. & Mex.]
amolition: Removal; a putting away. [Obs.] Bp. Ward (1673).
amomum: A genus of aromatic plants. It includes species which bearcardamoms, and grains of paradise.
amoneste: To admonish. [Obs.]
amontillado: A dry kind of cherry, of a light color. Simmonds.
amorette: An amoret. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
amorist: A lover; a gallant. [R.] Milton.It was the custom for an amorist to impress the name of his mistressin the dust, or upon the damp earth, with letters fixed upon hisshoe. Southey.
amorosa: A wanton woman; a courtesan. Sir T. Herbert.
amorosity: The quality of being amorous; lovingness. [R.] Galt.
amoroso: A lover; a man enamored.
amorously: In an amorous manner; fondly.
amorousness: The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love;lovingness.
amorpha: A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purpleflowers; false or bastard indigo. Longfellow.
amorphism: A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being withoutcrystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal,etc.
amorphozoa: Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as thesponges.
amorphozoic: Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.
amorphy: Shapelessness. [Obs.] Swift.
amort: As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed. Shak.
amortizable: Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.
amortization: The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, whichwas considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or inmortmain.
amortize: To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation.See Mortmain.
amortizement: Same as Amortization.
amotus: Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip doesnot touch the ground.
amount: To signify; to amount to. [Obs.]
amour propre: Self-love; self-esteem.
amovability: Liability to be removed or dismissed from office. [R.] T.Jefferson.
amovable: Removable.
amove: To dismiss from an office or station.
ampelite: An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to killinsects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceousalum schist.
ampelopsis: A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper.
amperage: The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductoror generated by a machine, measured in ampères.
ampere foot: A unit, employed in calculating fall of pressure indistributing mains, equivalent to a current of one ampère flowingthrough one foot of conductor.
ampere turn: A unit equal to the product of one complete convolution (of acoiled conductor) into one ampère of current; thus, a conductorhaving five convolutions and carrying a current of half an ampère issaid to have 2½ ampère turns. The magnetizing effect of a coil isproportional to the number of its ampère turns.
ampersand: A word used to describe the character Halliwell.
amphi-: A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of bothkinds, on both sides, about, around.
amphiarthrodial: Characterized by amphiarthrosis.
amphiarthrosis: A form of articulation in which the bones are connected byintervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.
amphiaster: The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division,consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle ofrodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.
amphibia: One of the classes of vertebrates.
amphibial: Amphibian. [R.]
amphibian: Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.
amphibiological: Pertaining to amphibiology.
amphibiology: A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of naturalhistory which treats of the Amphibia.
amphibiotica: A division of insects having aquatic larvæ.
amphibiously: Like an amphibious being.
amphibium: An amphibian.
amphiblastic: Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with completesegmentation.
amphibole: A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color andin composition. It occurs in monoclinic crystals; also massive,generally with fibrous or columnar structure. The color varies fromwhite to gray, green, brown, and black. It is a silicate of magnesiumand calcium, with usually aluminium and iron. Some common varietiesare tremolite, actinolite, asbestus, edenite, hornblende (the lastname being also used as a general term for the whole species).Amphibole is a constituent of many crystalline rocks, as syenite,diorite, most varieties of trachyte, etc. See Hornblende.
amphibological: Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous. "Amphibological expressions."Jer. Taylor.-- Am*phib`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
amphibology: A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of twointerpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning. It differs fromequivocation, which arises from the twofold sense of a single term.
amphibolous: Capable of two meanings.An amphibolous sentence is one that is capable of two meanings, notfrom the double sense of any of the words, but from its admitting ofa double construction; e. g., "The duke yet lives that Henry shalldepose." Whately.
amphiboly: Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.If it oracle contrary to our interest or humor, we will create anamphiboly, a double meaning where there is none. Whitlock.
amphibrach: A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first andlast short (as, h. In modern prosody the accented syllable takes theplace of the long and the unaccented of the short; as, pro-phet''ic.
amphichroic: Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in thecolor test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.
amphicome: A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences,anciently used in divination. [Obs.] Encyc. Brit.
amphictyonic: Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council;as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body. W. Smith.
amphictyons: Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to acongress or council. They considered both political and religiousmatters.
amphictyony: A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebratedconfederation known as the Amphictyonic Council. Its object was tomaintain the common interests of Greece.
amphid: A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and abase, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, ortellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound. [R.] Berzelius.
amphidisc: A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheelat each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.
amphidromical: Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- socalled because the friends of the parents carried the child aroundthe hearth and then named it.
amphigamous: Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexualorgans; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order ofplants.
amphigean: Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polarzones inclusive.
amphigen: An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- appliedby Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium. [R.]
amphigene: Leucite.
amphigenesis: Sexual generation; amphigony.
amphigenous: Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.
amphigonic: Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.[R.]
amphigonous: Relating to both parents. [R.]
amphigony: Sexual propagation. [R.]
amphigoric: Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.
amphigory: A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which onfurther attention proves to be meaningless. [Written alsoamphigouri.]
amphimacer: A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the otherslong, as in cast. Andrews.
amphineura: A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry ofthe organs and the arrangement of the nerves.
amphioxus: A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or threeinches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet.Its body is pointed at both ends. It is the lowest and mostgeneralized of the vertebrates, having neither brain, skull,vertebræ, nor red blood. It forms the type of the group Acrania,Leptocardia, etc.
amphipneust: One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills atthe same time, as the proteus and siren.
amphipod: One of the Amphipoda.
amphipoda: A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabitingboth fresh and salt water. The body is usually compressed laterally,and the anterior pairs or legs are directed downward and forward, butthe posterior legs are usually turned upward and backward. The beachflea is an example. See Tetradecapoda and Arthrostraca.
amphipodous: Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.
amphiprostyle: Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at thesides.-- n.
amphirhina: A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasalsac is double.
amphisbaena: A genus of harmless lizards, serpentlike in form, without legs,and with both ends so much alike that they appear to have a head ateach, and ability to move either way. See Illustration in Appendix.
amphisbaenoid: Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbæna.
amphistomous: Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by meansof which they adhere.
amphistylic: Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch andthe cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.
amphitheatral: Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.
amphitheatrically: In the form or manner of an amphitheater.
amphitrocha: A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventralcircle of special cilia.
amphiuma: A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States,having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and twopersistent gill openings; the Congo snake.
amphopeptone: A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone andantipeptone.
amphora: Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at thebottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.
amphoral: Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.
amphoric: Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled,and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an emptydecanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.
amphoteric: Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline;neutral. [R.] Smart.
ample: Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious;roomy; widely extended.All the people in that ample house Did to that image bow their humbleknees. Spenser.
amplectant: Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils. Gray.
ampleness: The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness;completeness.
amplexation: An embrace. [Obs.]An humble amplexation of those sacred feet. Bp. Hall.
amplexicaul: Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves. Gray.
ampliate: To enlarge. [R.]To maintain and ampliate the external possessions of your empire.Udall.
ampliation: A postponement of the decision of a cause, for furtherconsideration or re-argument.
ampliative: Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already knownor received."All bodies possess power of attraction" is an ampliative judgment;because we can think of bodies without thinking of attraction as oneof their immediate primary attribute. Abp. W. Thomson.
amplificate: To amplify. [Obs.] Bailey.
amplification: The enlarging of a simple statement by particularity ofdescription, the use of epithets, etc., for rhetorical effect;diffuse narrative or description, or a dilating upon all theparticulars of a subject.Exaggeration is a species of amplification. Brande & C.I shall summarily, without any amplification at all, show in whatmanner defects have been supplied. Sir J. Davies.
amplificative: Amplificatory.
amplificatory: Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative. Morell.
amplifier: One who or that which amplifies.
amplify: To enlarge by addition or discussion; to treat copiously byadding particulars, illustrations, etc.; to expand; to make much of.Troilus and Cressida was written by a Lombard author, but muchamplified by our English translator. Dryden.
amplitude: The horizontal line which measures the distance to which aprojectile is thrown; the range.
amply: In an ample manner.
ampul: Same as Ampulla, 2.
ampulla: A narrow-necked vessel having two handles and bellying out likea jug.
ampullaceous: Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.Kirby. Ampullaceous sac (Zoöl.), one of the peculiar cavities in thetissues of sponges, containing the zooidal cells.
ampulliform: Flask-shaped; dilated.
amputate: To cut off (a limb or projecting part (of the body). Wiseman.
amputation: The act amputating; esp. the operation of cutting of a limb orprojecting part of the body.
amputator: One who amputates.
ampyx: A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the fronthair.
amrita: Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality.-- a. Ambrosial; immortal.
amt: An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.
amuck: In a frenzied and reckless. To run amuck, to rush out in astate of frenzy, as the Malays sometimes do under the influence of"bhang," and attack every one that comes in the way; to assailrecklessly and indiscriminately.Satire's my weapon, but I'm too discreet To run amuck, and tilt atall I meet. Pope.
amulet: An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic,etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, suchas diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic formsor characters.
amuletic: Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.
amurcous: Full off dregs; foul. [R.] Knowles.
amusable: Capable of being amused.
amuse: To muse; to mediate. [Obs.]
amuser: One who amuses.
amusette: A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.
amusing: Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story.-- A*mus"ing*ly, adv.
amusive: Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excitemirth. [R.] -- A*mu"sive*ly, adv.-- A*mu"sive*ness, n.
amvis: An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative ofnitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.
amy: A friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.
amyelous: Wanting the spinal cord.
amygdalaceous: Akin to, or derived from, the almond.
amygdalate: Pertaining to, resembling, or made of, almonds.
amygdalic: Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as,amygdalic acid.
amygdaliferous: Almond-bearing.
amygdalin: A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white,crystalline substance.
amygdaline: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.
amygdaloid: A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities,occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of differentminerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites. When theimbedded minerals are detached or removed by decomposition, it isporous, like lava.
amyl: A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found inamyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.
amyl alcohol: Any of eight isomeric liquid compounds, C5H11OH; ordinarily, amixture of two of these forming a colorless liquid with a peculiarcough-exciting odor and burning taste, the chief constituent of fuseloil. It is used as a source of amyl compounds, such as amyl acetate,amyl nitrite, etc.
amyl nitrite: A yellowish oily volatile liquid, C5H11NO2, used in medicine asa heart stimulant and a vasodilator. The inhalation of its vaporinstantly produces flushing of the face.
amylaceous: Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.
amylate: A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atomor radical.
amylene: One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of theethylene series. The colorless, volatile, mobile liquid commonlycalled amylene is a mixture of different members of the group.
amylic: Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether. Amylicalcohol (Chem.), one of the series of alcohols, a transparent,colorless liquid, having a peculiar odor. It is the hydroxide ofamyl.-- Amylic fermentation (Chem.), a process of fermentation in starchor sugar in which amylic alcohol is produced. Gregory.
amylobacter: A microörganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops invegetable tissue during putrefaction. Sternberg.
amylogen: That part of the starch granule or granulose which is solublein water.
amylogenesis: The formation of starch.
amyloid: The substance deposited in the organs in amyloid degeneration.
amylolysis: The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins andsugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a.
amylolytic: Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin andsugar; as, an amylolytic ferment. Foster.
amylometer: Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance.
amyloplastic: Starch-forming; amylogenic.
amylopsin: The diastase of the pancreatic juice.
amylose: One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as,starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.
amyous: Wanting in muscle; without flesh.
amyss: Same as Amice, a hood or cape.
an: This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called theindefinite article. It is used before nouns of the singular numberonly, and signifies one, or any, but somewhat less emphatically. Insuch expressions as "twice an hour," "once an age," a shilling anounce (see 2d A, 2), it has a distributive force, and is equivalentto each, every.
ana: Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or,contracted, aa), ., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.An apothecary with a . . . long bill of anas. Dryden.
ana-: A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward,throughout, backward, back, again, anew.
anabaptism: The doctrine of the Anabaptists.
anabaptist: A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding thatrebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.
anabaptistry: The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists. [R.]Thus died this imaginary king; and Anabaptistry was suppressed inMunster. Pagitt.
anabaptize: To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename. [R.] Whitlock.
anabas: A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living longout of water, and of making their way on land for considerabledistances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.
anabasis: The first period, or increase, of a disease; augmentation.[Obs.]
anabatic: Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever. [Obs.]
anabolic: Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes,more or less constructive in their nature.
anabolism: The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished fromkatabolism.
anabranch: A branch of a river that reënters, or anastomoses with, themain stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself insandy soil. [Australia]
anacamptic: Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).
anacamptically: By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.Hutton.
anacamptics: A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, asthe cod.
anacanthous: Spineless, as certain fishes.
anacardiaceous: Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants ofwhich the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are wellknown examples.
anacardic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardicacid.
anacardium: A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.
anacathartic: Producing vomiting or expectoration.-- n.
anacharis: A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceæ),native to America. Transferred to England it became an obstruction tonavigation. Called also waterweed and water thyme.
anachorism: An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; areferring something to a wrong place. [R.]
anachronism: A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error inchronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other,esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification ofchronological relation.
anachronistic: Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism. T. Warton.
anachronize: To refer to, or put into, a wrong time. [R.] Lowell.
anachronous: Containing an anachronism; anachronistic.-- An*ach"ro*nous*ly, adv.
anaclastic: Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as,anaclastic curves.
anaclastics: That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; --commonly called dioptrics. Encyc. Brit.
anacoenosis: A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponentsfor their opinion on the point in debate. Walker.
anacoluthic: Lacking grammatical sequence.-- An`a*co*lu"thic*al*ly, adv.
anacoluthon: A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; aninstance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latterpart does not syntactically correspond with the first part.
anaconda: A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectesmurinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and smallmammals. The name is also applied to a similar large serpent (Pythontigris) of Ceylon.
anacreontic: Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, theGreek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial. De Quincey.
anacrotic: Pertaining to anachronism.
anacrotism: A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in asphygmographic tracing.
anacrusis: A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properlybeginning with an accented syllable.
anadem: A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath. Drayton. Tennyson.
anadiplosis: A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in asentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunctidea; as, "He retained his virtues amidst all his misfortunes --misfortunes which no prudence could foresee or prevent."
anadrom: A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.
anadromous: Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, forbreeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.
anaemia: A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in qualityor in quantity.
anaemic: Of or pertaining to anæmia.
anaerobic: Relating to, or like, anaërobies; araërobiotic.
anaerobies: Microörganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed byit. Sternberg.
anaerobiotic: Related to, or of the nature of, anaërobies.
anaesthesia: Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; astate of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by theinhalation or application of an anæsthetic.
anaesthesis: See Anæsthesia.
anaesthetic: That which produces insensibility to pain, as chloroform,ether, etc.
anaesthetization: The process of anæsthetizing; also, the condition of thenervous system induced by anæsthetics.
anaesthetize: To render insensible by an anæsthetic. Encyc. Brit.
anaglyph: Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in lowrelief, as a cameo.
anaglyphic: Work chased or embossed relief.
anaglyptic: Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in lowrelief.
anaglyptics: The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.
anaglyptograph: An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossedobject, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed. Brande & C.
anaglyptographic: Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, analyptographicengraving.
anaglyptography: The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to givethe subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representingcoins, bas-reliefs, etc.
anagnorisis: The unfolding or dénouement. [R.] De Quincey.
anagoge: Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest ofthe Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of thesaints in heaven; an anagogical explication.-- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv.
anagogics: Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures. L.Addison.
anagogy: Same as Anagoge.
anagram: Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in itsusual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another bythe transposition of its letters. Thus Galenus becomes angelus;William Noy (attorney-general to Charles I., and a laborious man) maybe turned into I moyl in law.
anagrammatism: The act or practice of making anagrams. Camden.
anagrammatist: A maker anagrams.
anagrammatize: To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form ananagram. Cudworth.
anagraph: An inventory; a record. [Obs.] Knowles.
anal: Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin orglands.
analcime: A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite, occurring inisometric crystals. By friction, it acquires a weak electricity;hence its name.
analcite: Analcime.
analectic: Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analecticmagazine.
analemma: An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of themeridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in theeast or west point of the horizon.
analeptic: Restorative; giving strength after disease.-- n.
analgesia: Absence of sensibility to pain. Quain.
anallagmatic: Not changed in form by inversion. Anallagmatic curves, a classof curves of the fourth degree which have certain peculiar relationsto circles; -- sometimes called bicircular quartics.-- Anallagmatic surfaces, a certain class of surfaces of the fourthdegree.
anallantoic: Without, or not developing, an allantois.
anallantoidea: The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed.It includes amphibians, fishes, and lower forms.
analogal: Analogous. [Obs.] Donne.
analogic: Of or belonging to analogy. Geo. Eliot.
analogically: In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way ofsimilitude.A prince is analogically styled a pilot, being to the state as apilot is to the vessel. Berkeley.
analogicalness: Quality of being analogical.
analogism: an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.Johnson.
analogist: One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy. Cheyne.
analogize: To employ, or reason by, analogy.
analogon: Analogue.
analogous: Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing someresemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.Analogous tendencies in arts and manners. De Quincey.Decay of public spirit, which may be considered analogous to naturaldeath. J. H. Newman.nalogous pole (Pyroelect.), that pole of a crystal which becomespositively electrified when heated.
analogue: A word in one language corresponding with one in another; ananalogous term; as, the Latin "pater" is the analogue of the English"father."
analogy: A relation or correspondence in function, between organs orparts which are decidedly different.
analysis: The separation of a compound substance, by chemical processes,into its constituents, with a view to ascertain either (a) whatelements it contains, or (b) how much of each element is present. Theformer is called qualitative, and the latter quantitative analysis.
analyst: One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraicalgeometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.
analytically: In an analytical manner.
analytics: The science of analysis.
analyzable: That may be analyzed.
analyzation: The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts;analysis.
analyze: To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into itselements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose ofan examination of each separately; to examine in such a manner as toascertain the elements or nature of the thing examined; as, toanalyze a fossil substance; to analyze a sentence or a word; toanalyze an action to ascertain its morality.No one, I presume, can analyze the sensations of pleasure or pain.Darwin.
analyzer: The part of a polariscope which receives the light afterpolarization, and exhibits its properties.
anamese: Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia.-- n.
anamnesis: A recalling to mind; recollection.
anamnestic: Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.
anamniotic: Without, or not developing, an amnion.
anamorphism: A gradual progression from one type to another, generallyascending. Huxley.
anamorphoscope: An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted byanamorphosis to its normal proportions. It usually consists of acylindrical mirror.
anamorphosis: A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of animage on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certainpoint, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron,appears regular and in proportion; a deformation of an image.
anamorphosy: Same as Anamorphosis.
anan: An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh [Obs.]Shak.
ananas: The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).
anandrous: Destitute of stamen
anangular: Containing no angle. [R.]
anantherous: Destitute of anthers. Gray.
ananthous: Destitute of flowers; flowerless.
anapest: A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first twoshort, or unaccented, the last long, or accented; the reverse of thedactyl. In Latin d, and in English in-ter-vene, are examples ofanapests.
anapestic: Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, ananapestic meter, foot, verse.-- n.
anapestical: Anapestic.
anaphora: A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two ormore successive clauses.
anaphrodisia: Absence of sexual appetite.
anaphrodisiac: Same as Antaphrodisiac. Dunglison.
anaphroditic: Produced without concourse of sexes.
anaplastic: Of or pertaining to anaplasty.
anaplasty: The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normalshape by the use of healthy tissue.
anaplerotic: Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers.-- n.
anapnograph: A form of spirometer.
anapnoic: Relating to respiration.
anapodeictic: Not apodeictic; undemonstrable. [R.]
anapophysis: An accessory process in many lumbar vertebræ.
anaptotic: Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay;as, anaptotic languages.
anaptychus: One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, asthe ammonites.
anarch: The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt. Milton.Imperial anarchs doubling human woes. Byron.
anarchal: Lawless; anarchical. [R.]We are in the habit of calling those bodies of men anarchal which arein a state of effervescence. Landor.
anarchism: The doctrine or practice of anarchists.
anarchist: An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrowof civil government.
anarchize: To reduce to anarchy.
anarthropoda: One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are nojointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.
anarthropodous: Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.
anarthrous: Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.
anas: A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certainspecies of fresh-water ducks.
anasarca: Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion ofserum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale,inelastic swelling of the skin.
anasarcous: Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.Wiseman.
anaseismic: Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks.
anastaltic: Styptic. [Obs.] Coxe.
anastate: One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, byconstructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm;-- opposed to katastate. Foster.
anastatic: Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from charactersin relief on zinc plates.
anastigmatic: Not astigmatic; --said esp. of a lens system which consists ofa converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and oppositeastigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free fromastigmatism.
anastomose: To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as thearteries and veins.The ribbing of the leaf, and the anastomosing network of its vessels.I. Taylor.
anastomosis: The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between twoor more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication betweenarteries or veins.
anastomotic: Of or pertaining to anastomosis.
anastrophe: An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed thehills, for, the hills echoed.
anathema: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema.-- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
anathematism: Anathematization. [Obs.]We find a law of Justinian forbidding anathematisms to be pronouncedagainst the Jewish Hellenists. J. Taylor.
anathematization: The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed;imprecation. Barrow.
anathematize: To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence
anathematizer: One who pronounces an anathema. Hammond.
anatifa: An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having afleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle. See Cirripedia.
anatifer: Same as Anatifa.
anatiferous: Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifæ, under the absurd notionof their turning into ducks or geese. See Barnacle.
anatine: Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.
anatocism: Compound interest. [R.] Bouvier.
anatomically: In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.
anatomist: One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.
anatomization: The act of anatomizing.
anatomizer: A dissector.
anatreptic: Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutativedialogues. Enfield.
anatron: Having the ovule inverted at an early period in itsdevelopment, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposedto orthotropous. Gray.
anatto: Same as Annotto.
ance: A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as,assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance. See -ancy.
ancestor: An earlier type; a progenitor; as, this fossil animal isregarded as the ancestor of the horse.
ancestorial: Ancestral. Grote.
ancestorially: With regard to ancestors.
ancestral: Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestoror ancestors; as, an ancestral estate. "Ancestral trees." Hemans.
ancestress: A female ancestor.
anchor: An emblem of hope.
anchor light: The lantern shown at night by a vessel at anchor. Internationalrules of the road require vessels at anchor to carry from sunset tosunrise a single white light forward if under 150 feet in length, andif longer, two such lights, one near the stern and one forward.
anchor shot: A shot made with the object balls in an anchor space.
anchor space: In the balk-line game, any of eight spaces, 7 inches by 3½,lying along a cushion and bisected transversely by a balk line.Object balls in an anchor space are treated as in balk.
anchor watch: A detail of one or more men who keep watch on deck at nightwhen a vessel is at anchor.
anchorable: Fit for anchorage.
anchorage: Abode of an anchoret.
anchorate: Anchor-shaped.
anchored: Having the extremities turned back, like the flukes of ananchor; as, an anchored cross. [Sometimes spelt ancred.]
anchoress: A female anchoret.And there, a saintly anchoress, she dwelt. Wordsworth.
anchoretish: Hermitlike.
anchoretism: The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.
anchorite: Same as Anchoret.
anchoritess: An anchoress. [R.]
anchorless: Without an anchor or stay. Hence
anchovy: A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herringfamily (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in theMediterranean, and pickled for exportation. The name is also appliedto several allied species.
anchovy pear: A West Indian fruit like the mango in taste, sometimes pickled;also, the tree (Grias cauliflora) bearing this fruit.
anchusin: A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.
anchylose: To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite orconsolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.[Spelt also ankylose.] Owen.
anchylotic: Of or pertaining to anchylosis.
ancient: Those who lived in former ages, as opposed to the moderns.
ancientness: The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from oldtimes.
ancile: The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen fromheaven in the reign of Numa. It was the palladium of Rome.
ancillary: Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.The Convocation of York seems to have been always considered asinferior, and even ancillary, to the greater province. Hallam.
ancillary administration: An administration subordinate to, and in aid of, the primary orprincipal administration of an estate.
ancille: A maidservant; a handmaid. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ancistroid: Hook-shaped.
ancle: See Ankle.
ancome: A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.[Obs.] Boucher.
ancon: The olecranon, or the elbow. Ancon sheep (Zoöl.), a breed ofsheep with short crooked legs and long back. It originated inMassachusetts in 1791; -- called also the otter breed.
anconeus: A muscle of the elbow and forearm.
anconoid: Elbowlike; anconal.
ancony: A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar inthe middle, but unwrought at the ends.
andabatism: Doubt; uncertainty. [Obs.] Shelford.
andalusite: A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombicprisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint. It wasfirst discovered in Andalusia, Spain.
andante: Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker thanlarghetto, and slower than allegretto.-- n.
andantino: Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.
andarac: Red orpiment. Coxe.
andean: Pertaining to the Andes.
andesine: A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.
andesite: An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially ofa triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.
andine: Andean; as, Andine flora.
andiron: A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, onebeing placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.
andranatomy: The dissection of a human body, especially of a male;androtomy. Coxe.
androcephalous: Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptiansphinx.
androecium: The stamens of a flower taken collectively.
androgyne: An androgynous plant. Whewell.
android: Resembling a man.
andromeda: A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythicalAndromeda.
andron: The apartment appropriated for the males. This was in the lowerpart of the house.
andropetalous: Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, asdouble flowers, like the garden ranunculus. Brande.
androphagi: Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi. [R.]
androphagous: Anthropophagous.
androphore: A support or column on which stamens are raised. Gray.
andropogon: A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearlyall parts of the world. It includes the lemon grass of Ceylon and thebeard grass, or broom sedge, of the United States. The principalsubgenus is Sorghum, including  A. sorghum and A. halepensis, fromwhich have been derived the Chinese sugar cane, the Johnson grass,the Aleppo grass, the broom corn, and the durra, or Indian millet.Several East Indian species, as A. nardus and A. schonanthus, yieldfragrant oils, used in perfumery.
androsphinx: A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body ofa lion.
androspore: A spore of some algæ, which has male functions.
androtomous: Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.
androtomy: Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zoötomy;anthropotomy. [R.]
androus: A terminal combining form
anear: Near. [R.] "It did not come anear." Coleridge.The measure of misery anear us. I. Taylor.
aneath: Beneath. [Scot.]
anecdotage: Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.All history, therefore, being built partly, and some of italtogether, upon anecdotage, must be a tissue of lies. De Quincey.
anecdotal: Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotalconversation.
anecdote: Unpublished narratives. Burke.
anecdotist: One who relates or collects anecdotes.
anelace: Same as Anlace.
anelectric: Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed toidioelectric.-- n.
anelectrode: The positive pole of a voltaic battery.
anelectrotonus: The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in theregion of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a currentof electricity through it. Foster.
anemogram: A record made by an anemograph.
anemograph: An instrument for measuring and recording the direction andforce of the wind. Knight.
anemographic: Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.
anemology: The science of the wind.
anemometer: An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind;a wind gauge.
anemometrograph: An anemograph. Knight.
anemometry: The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of thewind.
anemone: A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family;windflower. Some of the species are cultivated in gardens.
anemonic: An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from,the anemone, or from anemonin.
anemonin: An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained fromsome species of anemone.
anemony: See Anemone. Sandys.
anemorphilous: Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants inwhich the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind-Fertilized. Lubbock.
anemoscope: An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a windvane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consistingof a vane above, connected in the building with a dial or index withpointers to show the changes of the wind.
anemosis: A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings areseparated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon thetrunk; wind shake.
anenterous: Destitute of a stomach or an intestine. Owen.
aneroid: Containing no liquid; -- said of kind of barometer. Aneroidbarometer, a barometer the action of which depends on the varyingpressure of the atmosphere upon the elastic top of a metallic box(shaped like a watch) from which the air has been exhausted. An indexshows the variation of pressure.
anes: Once. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
anet: The herb dill, or dillseed.
anethol: A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel,etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anisecamphor. Watts.
anetic: Soothing.
aneurism: A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising fromthe preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.[Written also aneurysm.]
aneurismal: Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor;aneurismal diathesis. [Written also aneurysmal.]
anew: Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to armanew; to create anew. Dryden.
anfractuose: Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.
anfractuosity: A sinuous depression or sulcus like those separating theconvolutions of the brain.
anfractuous: Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as,the anfractuous spires of a born.-- An*frac"tu*ous*ness, n.
anfracture: A mazy winding.
angariation: Exaction of forced service; compulsion. [Obs.] Speed.
angel: An ancient gold coin of England, bearing the figure of thearchangel Michael. It varied in value from 6s. 8d. to 10s. Amer. Cyc.
angel fish: See under Angel.
angelage: Existence or state of angels.
angelet: A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.Eng. Cyc.
angelhood: The state of being an angel; angelic nature. Mrs. Browning.
angelic: Of or derived from angelica; as, angelic acid; angelic ether.Angelic acid, an acid obtained from angelica and some other plants.
angelically: Like an angel.
angelicalness: The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.
angelify: To make like an angel; to angelize. [Obs.] Farindon (1647).
angelize: To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.It ought not to be our object to angelize, nor to brutalize, but tohumanize man. W. Taylor.
angellike: Resembling an angel.
angelolatry: Worship paid to angels.
angelology: A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard toangels.The same mythology commanded the general consent; the sameangelology, demonology. Milman.
angelophany: The actual appearance of an angel to man.
angerly: Angrily. [Obs. or Poetic]Why, how now, Hecate! you look angerly. Shak.
angevine: Of or pertaining to Anjou in France.-- n. A native of Anjou.
angienchyma: Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels,dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.
angina: Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as thequinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tendsto produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath. Anginapectoris, a peculiarly painful disease, so named from a sense ofsuffocating contraction or tightening of the lower part of the chest;-- called also breast pang, spasm of the chest.
angio-: A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usuallyrelating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, orcovered by, a vessel.
angiography: A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.
angiology: That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels andlymphatics.
angioma: A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.
angiomonospermous: Producing one seed only in a seed pod.
angioneurosis: Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a bloodvessel. --An`gi*o*neu*rot"ic (#), a.
angiopathy: Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels.
angioscope: An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animalsand plants. Morin.
angiosperm: A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.
angiospermatous: Same as Angiospermous.
angiospermous: Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.
angiosporous: Having spores contained in cells or thecæ, as in the case ofsome fungi.
angiostomous: With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.
angiotomy: Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.Dunglison.
angle: A name given to four of the twelve astrological "houses."[Obs.] Chaucer.
angle of entry: The angle between the tangent to the advancing edge (of anaërocurve) and the line of motion; -- contrasted with angle of trail,which is the angle between the tangent to the following edge and theline of motion.
angle of incidence: The angle between the chord of an aërocurve and the relativedirection of the undisturbed air current.
angled: Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right-angled, many-angled, etc.The thrice three-angled beechnut shell. Bp. Hall.
anglemeter: An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists tomeasure the dip of strata.
angler: A fish (Lophius piscatorius), of Europe and America, having alarge, broad, and depressed head, with the mouth very large. Peculiarappendages on the head are said to be used to entice fishes withinreach. Called also fishing frog, frogfish, toadfish, goosefish,allmouth, monkfish, etc.
angles: An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, whichcame to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England). The Anglesprobably came from the district of Angeln (now within the limits ofSchleswig), and the country now Lower Hanover, etc.
anglesite: A native sulphate of lead. It occurs in white or yellowishtransparent, prismatic crystals.
anglewise: In an angular manner; angularly.
angleworm: A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglersfor bait. See Earthworm.
anglian: Of or pertaining to the Angles.-- n.
anglic: Anglian.
anglice: In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, AngliceLeghorn.
anglicify: To anglicize. [R.]
anglicity: The state or quality of being English.
anglicization: The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.
anglicize: To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable tothe English idiom, or to English analogies.
anglify: To convert into English; to anglicize. Franklin. Darwin.
angling: The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod andline. Walton.
anglo-: A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and,or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German,Anglo-Irish. Anglo-American, . Of or pertaining to the English andAmericans, or to the descendants of Englishmen in America.-- n. A descendant from English ancestors born in America, or theUnited States. Anglo-Danish, a. Of or pertaining to the English andDanes, or to the Danes who settled in England. Anglo-Indian, a. Of orpertaining to the English in India, or to the English and East Indianpeoples or languages.-- n. One of the Anglo-Indian race born or resident in the EastIndies. Anglo-Norman, a. Of or pertaining to the English and Normans,or to the Normans who settled in England.-- n. One of the English Normans, or the Normans who conqueredEngland. Anglo-Saxon. See Anglo-Saxon in the Vocabulary.
anglo-catholic: Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the EnglishReformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic orHigh Church section of the Church of England.
anglo-catholicism: The belief of those in the Church of England who accept manydoctrines and practices which they maintain were those of theprimitive, or true, Catholic Church, of which they consider theChurch of England to be the lineal descendant.
anglo-saxon: The Teutonic people (Angles, Saxons, Jutes) of England, or theEnglish people, collectively, before the Norman Conquest.It is quite correct to call Æthelstan "King of the Anglo-Saxons," butto call this or that subject of Æthelstan "an Anglo-Saxon" is simplynonsense. E. A. Freeman.
anglo-saxondom: The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the UnitedStates, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.
anglomania: A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs,institutions, etc.
anglomaniac: One affected with Anglomania.
anglophobia: Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English.-- An"glo*phobe, n.
angola: A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.
angola pea: A tropical plant (Cajanus indicus) and its edible seed, a kindof pulse; -- so called from Angola in Western Africa. Called alsopigeon pea and Congo pea.
angor: Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upperpart of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.
angora: A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name toa goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic catwith very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color.Called also Angola cat. See Cat.-- Angora goat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic goat, reared forits long silky hair, which is highly prized for manufacture.
angostura bark: An aromatic bark used as a tonic, obtained from a SouthAmerican of the rue family (Galipea cusparia, or officinalis). U. S.Disp.
angoumois moth: A small moth (Gelechia cerealella) which is very destructive towheat and other grain. The larva eats out the inferior of the grain,leaving only the shell.
angrily: In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.
angriness: The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.Such an angriness of humor that we take fire at everything. WholeDuty of Man.
anguiform: Snake-shaped.
anguilliform: Eel-shaped.
anguine: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent. "Theanguine or snakelike reptiles." Owen.
anguineal: Anguineous.
anguineous: Snakelike.
anguish: Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.But they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and forcruel bondage. Ex. vi. 9.Anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child. Jer. iv. 31.
angular: A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles,and fishes.
angularity: The quality or state of being angular; angularness.
angularly: In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners. B. Jonson.
angularness: The quality of being angular.
angulate: To make angular.
angulation: A making angular; angular formation. Huxley.
angulo-dentate: Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.
angulometer: An instrument for measuring external angles.
angulose: Angulous. [R.]
angulosity: A state of being angulous or angular. [Obs.]
angulous: Angular; having corners; hooked. [R.]Held together by hooks and angulous involutions. Glanvill.
angust: Narrow; strait. [Obs.]
angustate: Narrowed.
angustation: The act or making narrow; a straitening or contacting. Wiseman.
angusticlave: A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side ofthe tunic as a sign of rank.
angustura bark: See Angostura bark.
angwantibo: A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa. Ithas only a rudimentary tail.
anhang: To hang. [Obs.] Chaucer.
anharmonic: Not harmonic. The anharmonic function or ratio of four pointsabcd on a straight line is the quantity (ac/ad):(bc/bd), where thesegments are to regarded as plus or minus, according to the order ofthe letters.
anhelation: Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma. Glanvill.
anhele: To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for). [Obs.]They anhele . . . for the fruit of our convocation. Latimer.
anhelose: Anhelous; panting. [R.]
anhelous: Short of breath; panting.
anhima: A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi(Palamedea cornuta). See Kamichi.
anhinga: An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga);the darter, or snakebird.
anhistous: Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.
anhungered: Ahungered; longing. [Archaic]
anhydride: An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capableof forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- socalled because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction ofwater.
anhydrite: A mineral of a white a slightly bluish color, usually massive.It is anhydrous sulphate of lime, and differs from gypsum in notcontaining water (whence the name).
anhydrous: Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.
anigh: Nigh. [Archaic]
anil: A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the originalsources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.
anile: Old-womanish; imbecile. "Anile ideas." Walpole.
anileness: Anility. [R.]
anilic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied toan acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo. [R.]
anilide: One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides inwhich more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.
aniline: An organic base belonging to the phenylamines. It may beregarded as ammonia in which one hydrogen atom has been replaced bythe radical phenyl. It is a colorless, oily liquid, originallyobtained from indigo by distillation, but now largely manufacturedfrom coal tar or nitrobenzene as a base from which many brilliantdyes are made.
anilinism: A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in themanufacture of aniline.
anility: The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage."Marks of anility." Sterne.
animadversal: The faculty of perceiving; a percipient. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
animadversive: Having the power of perceiving; percipient. [Archaic] Glanvill.I do not mean there is a certain number of ideas glaring and shiningto the animadversive faculty. Coleridge.
animadverter: One who animadverts; a censurer; also [Obs.], a chastiser.
animal: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules. "Animalcularlife." Tyndall.
animalcule: An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. SeeInfusoria.
animalculism: The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological andpathological by means of animalcules.
animalculum: An animalcule.
animalish: Like an animal.
animalism: The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal lifewithout intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.
animality: Animal existence or nature. Locke.
animally: Physically. G. Eliot.
animalness: Animality. [R.]
animastic: Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.
animate: Endowed with life; alive; living; animated; lively.The admirable structure of animate bodies. Bentley.
animated: Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicatinganimation; lively; vigorous. "Animated sounds." Pope. "Animatedbust." Gray. "Animated descriptions." Lewis.
animatedly: With animation.
animater: One who animates. De Quincey.
animating: Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing."Animating cries." Pope.-- An"i*ma`ting*ly, adv.
animative: Having the power of giving life or spirit. Johnson.
animator: One who, or that which, animates; an animater. Sir T. Browne.
anime: Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of theeyes of a rapacious animal. Brande & C.
animist: One who maintains the doctrine of animism.
animistic: Of or pertaining to animism. Huxley. Tylor.
animoseness: Vehemence of temper. [Obs.]
animus: Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym
anion: An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro-chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed tocation. Faraday.
anise: An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally inEgypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative andaromatic seeds.
aniseed: The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it. "Oilof aniseed." Brande & C.
anisette: A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds. DeColange.
anisic: Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.
anisocoria: Inequality of the pupils of the eye.
anisodactylous: Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and onebackward, as in most passerine birds.
anisol: Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid orby the action of methide on potassium phenolate.
anisomeric: Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the sameproportions.
anisomerous: Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals andsix stamens.
anisometric: Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystalswith three unequal axes. Dana.
anisometropia: Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.
anisopetalous: Having unequal petals.
anisophyllous: Having unequal leaves.
anisopleura: A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiralshells. The two sides of the body are unequally developed.
anisopoda: A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, isintermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.
anisospore: A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed toisospore.
anisostemonous: Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number fromthe petals.
anisosthenic: Of unequal strength.
anisotropous: Anisotropic.
anito: In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.
anker: A liquid measure in various countries of Europe. The Dutchanker, formerly also used in England, contained about 10 of the oldwine gallons, or 8
ankerite: A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.
ankh: A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute orsacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life. Called alsocrux ansata.
ankle: The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.Ankle bone, the bone of the ankle; the astragalus.
ankled: Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled. Beau. &Fl.
anklet: An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.
ankus: An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling ashort-handled boat hook. [India] Kipling.
ankylose: Same as Anchylose.
ankylosis: Same as Anchylosis.
ankylostomiasis: A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostomaduodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or alliednematodes, in the small intestine. When present in large numbers theyproduce a severe anæmia by sucking the blood from the intestinalwalls.  Called also miner's anæmia, tunnel disease, brickmaker'sanæmia, Egyptian chlorosis.
anlace: A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle. [Written alsoanelace.]
anlaut: An initial sound, as of a word or syllable.
anna: An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, orabout 2
annal: See Annals.
annalist: A writer of annals.The monks . . . were the only annalists in those ages. Hume.
annalistic: Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dryannalistic style."A stiff annalistic method." Sir G. C. Lewis.
annalize: To record in annals. Sheldon.
annals: The record of a single event or item. "In deathless annal."Young.
annealer: One who, or that which, anneals.
annectent: Connecting; annexing. Owen.
annelida: A division of the Articulata, having the body formed ofnumerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs. Theprincipal subdivisions are the Chætopoda, including the Oligochæta orearthworms and Polychæta or marine worms; and the Hirudinea orleeches. See Chætopoda.
annelidous: Of the nature of an annelid.
annellata: See Annelida.
anneloid: An animal resembling an annelid.
annex: To join; to be united. Tooke.
annexationist: One who favors annexation.
annexer: One who annexes.
annexion: Annexation. [R.] Shak.
annexionist: An annexationist. [R.]
annexment: The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage. [R.]Shak.
annihilable: Capable of being annihilated.
annihilate: Anhilated. [Archaic] Swift.
annihilationist: One who believes that eternal punishment consists inannihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.
annihilative: Serving to annihilate; destructive.
annihilator: One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.
annihilatory: Annihilative.
anniversarily: Annually. [R.] Bp. Hall.
anniversary: Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as,an anniversary feast. Anniversary day (R. C. Ch.). See Anniversary,n., 2.-- Anniversary week, that week in the year in which the annualmeetings of religious and benevolent societies are held in Boston andNew York. [Eastern U. S.]
anniverse: Anniversary. [Obs.] Dryden.
anno domini: In the year of the Christian era; as, a. d. 1887.
annodated: Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S. Cussans.
annominate: To name. [R.]
annotate: To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works ofBacon.
annotation: A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually inthe plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or apassage.
annotationist: An annotator. [R.]
annotative: Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.
annotator: A writer of annotations; a commentator.
annotatory: Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations. [R.]
annotine: A bird one year old, or that has once molted.
annotinous: A year old; in Yearly growths.
announcement: The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces;proclamation; publication.
announcer: One who announces.
annoy: A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what onedislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.Worse than Tantalus' is her annoy. Shak.
annoyer: One who, or that which, annoys.
annoyful: Annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.
annoying: That annoys; molesting; vexatious.-- An*noy"ing*ly, adv.
annoyous: Troublesome; annoying. [Obs.] Chaucer.
annual: A Mass for a deceased person or for some special object, saiddaily for a year or on the anniversary day.
annualist: One who writes for, or who edits, an annual. [R.]
annually: Yearly; year by year.
annuary: Annual. [Obs.] -- n.
annueler: A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.[Obs.] Chaucer.
annuent: Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).
annuitant: One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity. Lamb.
annuity: A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given numberof years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.
annularity: Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula. J.Rogers.
annularry: In an annular manner.
annulary: Having the form of a ring; annular. Ray.
annulata: A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida,including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma,leeches, etc. See Annelida.
annulate: One of the Annulata.
annulation: A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt. Nicholson.
annulet: A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used byitself, or with other moldings. It is used, several times repeated,under the Doric capital.
annullable: That may be Annulled.
annuller: One who annuls. [R.]
annulment: The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.
annuloid: Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.
annuloida: A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and alliedgroups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.[Written also Annuloidea.]
annulosa: A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to theArticulata. It includes the Arthoropoda and Anarthropoda. By somezoölogists it is applied to the former only.
annulosan: One of the Annulosa.
annulose: Of or pertaining to the Annulosa.
annulus: Ring-shaped structures or markings, found in, or upon, variousanimals.
annumerate: To add on; to count in. [Obs.] Wollaston.
annumeration: Addition to a former number. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
annunciable: That may be announced or declared; declarable. [R.]
annunciate: To announce.
annunciation lily: The common white lily (Lilium candidum). So called because itis usually introduced by painters in pictures of the Annunciation.
annunciative: Pertaining to annunciation; announcing. [R.] Dr. H. More.
annunciatory: Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known. [R.]
anoa: A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to thebuffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.
anode: The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly theelectrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way tothe other pole; -- opposed to cathode.
anodon: A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge.[Written also Anodonta.]
anodyne: Serving to assuage pain; soothing.The anodyne draught of oblivion. Burke.
anodynous: Anodyne.
anoil: The anoint with oil. [Obs.] Holinshed.
anoint: Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
anointer: One who anoints.
anointment: The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, anointment. Milton.
anolis: A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ. Theytake the place in the New World of the chameleons in the Old, and inAmerica are often called chameleons.
anomal: Anything anomalous. [R.]
anomaliped: One of a group of perching birds, having the middle toe more orless united to the outer and inner ones.
anomalism: An anomaly; a deviation from rule. Hooker.
anomalistically: With irregularity.
anomaloflorous: Having anomalous flowers.
anomalous: Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal;irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.
anomalously: In an anomalous manner.
anomalousness: Quality of being anomalous.
anomaly: Any deviation from the essential characteristics of a specifictype.
anomia: A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called fromtheir unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated forattachment.
anomophyllous: Having leaves irregularly placed.
anomuran: One of the Anomura.
anomy: Disregard or violation of law. [R.] Glanvill.
anona: A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural orderAnonaceæ, including the soursop.
anonaceous: Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop,custard apple, etc.
anonymity: The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also,that which anonymous. [R.]He rigorously insisted upon the rights of anonymity. Carlyle.
anonymous: Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowedauthorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet orletter.
anonymously: In an anonymous manner; without a name. Swift.
anonymousness: The state or quality of being anonymous. Coleridge.
anopheles: A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malariaparasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means ofinfecting human beings with malaria. Several species are found in theUnited States. They may be distinguished from the ordinary mosquitoesof the genus Culex by the long slender palpi, nearly equaling thebeak in length, while those of the female Culex are very short. Theyalso assume different positions when resting, Culex usually holdingthe body parallel to the surface on which it rests and keeping thehead and beak bent at an angle, while Anopheles holds the body at anangle with the surface and the head and beak in line with it. Unlessthey become themselves infected by previously biting a subjectaffected with malaria, the insects cannot transmit the disease.
anophyte: A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usuallyan upward growth and distinct leaves.
anopla: One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.
anoplura: A group of insects which includes the lice.
anormal: Not according to rule; abnormal. [Obs.]
anorn: To adorn. [Obs.] Bp. Watson.
anorthic: Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.
anorthite: A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in smallglassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks. It is alime feldspar. See Feldspar.
anorthoclase: A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic. It ischiefly a silicate of sodium, potassium, and aluminium. Sp. gr., 2.57-- 2.60.
anorthopia: Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.
anorthoscope: An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures bymeans of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures arepainted.
anorthosite: A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda-lime feldspar, usually labradorite.
anosmia: Loss of the sense of smell.
another-gaines: Of another kind. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
another-gates: Of another sort. [Obs.] "Another-gates adventure." Hudibras.
another-guess: Of another sort. [Archaic]It used to go in another-guess manner. Arbuthnot.
anotta: See Annotto.
anoura: See Anura.
anourous: See Anurous.
ansa: A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.
ansated: Having a handle. Johnson.
anserated: Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions,etc.; as, an anserated cross.
anseres: A Linnæan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbedfeet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe. In this order wereincluded the geese, ducks, auks, divers, gulls, petrels, etc.
anseriformes: A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closelyallied forms.
anserine: Pertaining to the Anseres.
anserous: Resembling a goose; silly; simple. Sydney Smith.
answer: A counter-statement of facts in a course of pleadings; aconfutation of what the other party has alleged; a responsivedeclaration by a witness in reply to a question. In Equity, it is theusual form of defense to the complainant's charges in his bill.Bouvier.
answerableness: The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, orcorrespondent.
answerably: In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence;suitably.
answerer: One who answers.
answerless: Having no answer, or impossible to be answered. Byron.
ant: A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which isnow made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.
ant bird: See Ant bird, under Ant, n.
ant cow: Any aphid from which ants obtain honeydew.
ant egg: One of the small white egg-shaped pupæ or cocoons of the ant,often seen in or about ant-hills, and popularly supposed to be eggs.
ant-: See Anti-, prefix.
ant-bear: An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), livingon ants. It belongs to the genus Myrmecophaga.
ant-cattle: Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for thesake of the honeydew which they secrete. See Aphips.
ant-eater: One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feedupon ants. See Ant-bear, Pangolin, Aard-vark, and Echidna.
ant-hill: A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming theirnests.
ant-lion: A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand apitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species isMyrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.
anta: A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at itstermination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital andbase.
antacid: A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent.-- a.
antacrid: Corrective of acrimony of the humors.
antaean: Pertaining to Antæus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.
antagonism: Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things orprinciples.
antagonist: A muscle which acts in opposition to another; as a flexor,which bends a part, is the antagonist of an extensor, which extendsit.
antagonize: To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.
antagony: Contest; opposition; antagonism. [Obs.]Antagony that is between Christ and Belial. Milton.
antalgic: Alleviating pain.-- n.
antalkaline: Of power to counteract alkalies.
antambulacral: Away from the ambulacral region.
antanagoge: A figure which consists in answering the charge of anadversary, by a counter charge.
antaphrodisiac: Capable of blunting the venereal appetite.-- n.
antaphroditic: An antaphroditic medicine.
antapoplectic: Good against apoplexy.-- n.
antarchism: Opposition to government in general. [R.]
antarchist: One who opposes all government. [R.]
antarctic: Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to thesouthern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to acircle, distant from the pole 23º 28min. Thus we say the antarcticpole, circle, ocean, region, current, etc.
antares: The principal star in Scorpio
antarthritic: A remedy against gout.
antasthmatic: Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma.-- n.
ante: Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante)the game begins.
ante mortem: Before death; -- generally used adjectivelly; as, an ante-mortem statement; ante-mortem examination.
ante-: A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-,anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.
anteact: A preceding act.
anteal: Being before, or in front. [R.] J. Fleming.
antecedaneous: Antecedent; preceding in time. "Capable of antecedaneousproof." Barrow.
antecede: To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass. Sir M.Hale.
antecedence: An apparent motion of a planet toward the west; retrogradation.
antecedency: The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.Fothherby.
antecedent: The earlier events of one's life; previous principles, conduct,course, history. J. H. Newman.If the troops . . . prove worthy of their antecedents, the victory issurely ours. Gen. G. McClellan.
antecedently: Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as,antecedently to conversion. Barrow.
antechapel: The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.Shipley.
antecians: See Ant.
antecommunion: A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for thecommunion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.
antecursor: A forerunner; a precursor. [Obs.]
antediluvial: Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.
antediluvian: Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time;hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle.-- n.
antefact: Something done before another act. [Obs.]
anteflexion: A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in suchmanner that its axis is bent upon itself. T. G. Thomas.
antelope: One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between thedeer and the goat. The horns are usually annulated, or ringed. Thereare many species in Africa and Asia.The antelope and wolf both fierce and fell. Spenser.
antelucan: Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies ofChristians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in themorning. "Antelucan worship." De Quincey.
antemeridian: Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev.a. m.)
antemetic: Tending to check vomiting.-- n.
antemosaic: Being before the time of Moses.
antemundane: Being or occurring before the creation of the world. Young.
antemural: An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in frontgateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.
antenatal: Before birth. Shelley.
antenicene: Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the firstcouncil of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.
antenna: A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to theheads of insects and Crustacea. There are two in the former, andusually four in the latter. They are used as organs of touch, and insome species of Crustacea the cavity of the ear is situated near thebasal joint. In insects, they are popularly called horns, and alsofeelers. The term in also applied to similar organs on the heads ofother arthropods and of annelids.
antennal: Belonging to the antennæ. Owen.
antenniferous: Bearing or having antennæ.
antenniform: Shaped like antennæ.
antennule: A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ orfeelers of Crustacea.
antenumber: A number that precedes another. [R.] Bacon.
antenuptial: Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement. Kent.
anteorbital: Same as Antorbital.
antepaschal: Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.
antepast: A foretaste.Antepasts of joy and comforts. Jer. Taylor.
antependium: The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth;the frontal. Smollett.
antepenultimate: Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two.-- n.
antephialtic: Good against nightmare.-- n.
antepileptic: Good against epilepsy.-- n.
antepone: To put before; to prefer. [Obs.] Bailey.
anteport: An outer port, gate, or door.
anteportico: An outer porch or vestibule.
anteposition: The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules,ought to follow it.
anteprandial: Preceding dinner.
antepredicament: A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments andcategories, such as definitions of common terms. Chambers.
anteriority: The state of being anterior or preceding in time or insituation; priority. Pope.
anteriorly: In an anterior manner; before.
antero-: A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior,front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.
anteroom: A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waitingroom.
antestature: A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks ofearth.
antestomach: A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds. Ray.
antetemple: The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.
anteversion: A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such mannerthat its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.
antevert: To displace by anteversion.
anthelion: A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or ringsaround the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on acloud or on an opposite fog bank.
anthelix: Same as Antihelix.
anthelmintic: Good against intestinal worms.-- An anthelmintic remedy. [Written also anthelminthic.]
anthem: To celebrate with anthems. [Poet.]Sweet birds antheming the morn. Keats.
anthemion: A floral ornament. See Palmette.
anthemis: Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.
anthemwise: Alternately. [Obs.] Bacon.
anther: That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizingdust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of theovary.-- An"ther*al, a.
antheridium: The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of acell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- calledalso spermary.-- An`ther*id"i*al, a.
antheriform: Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.
antherogenous: Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.
antheroid: Resembling an anther.
anthesis: The period or state of full expansion in a flower. Gray.
anthobian: A beetle which feeds on flowers.
anthobranchia: A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills forma wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back. SeeNudibranchiata, and Doris.
anthocarpous: Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to thepericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, andthe pineapple.
anthocyanin: Same as Anthokyan.
anthodium: The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many floretsare gathered into a involucrate head.
anthography: A description of flowers.
anthoid: Resembling a flower; flowerlike.
anthokyan: The blue coloring matter of certain flowers. Same as Cyanin.
antholite: A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.
anthological: Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts fromdifferent authors, especially the poets.He published a geographical and anthological description of allempires and kingdoms . . . in this terrestrial globe. Wood.
anthologist: One who compiles an anthology.
anthology: A service book containing a selection of pieces for thefestival services.
anthomania: A extravagant fondness for flowers. [R.]
anthophagous: Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.
anthophilous: Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among,flowers.
anthophore: The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx andcorolla, as in the Pink family. Gray.
anthophorous: Flower bearing; supporting the flower.
anthophyllite: A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clovebrown color.-- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a.
anthorism: A description or definition contrary to that which is given bythe adverse party. [R.]
anthotaxy: The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of therelative position of flowers; inflorescence.
anthozoa: The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and seaanemones. The three principal groups or orders are Acyonaria,Actinaria, and Madreporaria.
anthozoan: Pertaining to the Anthozoa.-- n.
anthozoic: Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.
anthracene: A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompaniesnaphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar. Itschief use is in the artificial production of alizarin. [Written alsoanthracin.]
anthracene oil: A heavy green oil (partially solidifying on cooling), whichdistills over from coal tar at a temperature above 270º. It is theprincipal source of anthracene.
anthracic: Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.
anthraciferous: Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.
anthracite: A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster,differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, inconsequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame. Thepurer specimens consist almost wholly of carbon. Also called glancecoal and blind coal.
anthracitic: Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthraciticformations.
anthracnose: Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic speciesof the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon,cotton, and other plants. In the case of the grape, brown concavespots are formed on the stem and fruit, and the disease is calledbird's-eye rot.
anthracoid: Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, ananthracoid microbe.
anthracomancy: Divination by inspecting a burning coal.
anthracometer: An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in amixture.
anthracometric: Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.
anthraconite: A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell whenrubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.
anthracosis: A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to theinhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner'sphthisis.
anthraquinone: A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellowneedles. It is obtained by oxidation of anthracene.
anthrax: A microscopic, bacterial organism (Bacillus anthracis),resembling transparent rods. [See Illust. under Bacillus.]
anthrax vaccine: A fluid vaccine obtained by growing a bacterium (Bacteriumanthracis) in beef broth. It is used to immunize animals, esp.cattle.
anthrenus: A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larvalstate, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common"museum pest" is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariæ. Thelarvæ are commonly confounded with moths.
anthropidae: The group that includes man only.
anthropocentric: Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied totheories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.Draper.
anthropogenic: Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.
anthropogeny: The science or study of human generation, or the origin anddevelopment of man.
anthropogeography: The science of the human species as to geographicaldistribution and environment. Broadly, it includes industrial,commercial, and political geography, and that part of ethnology whichdeals with distribution and physical environment. --An`thro*po*ge*og"ra*pher (#), n. -- An`thro*po*ge`o*graph"ic*al (#),a.
anthropoglot: An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as theparrot.
anthropography: That branch of anthropology which treats of the actualdistribution of the human race in its different divisions, asdistinguished by physical character, language, institutions, andcustoms, in contradistinction to ethnography, which treatshistorically of the origin and filiation of races and nations. P.Cyc.
anthropoid: Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as theourang or gorilla.-- n.
anthropoidal: Anthropoid.
anthropoidea: The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, andman.
anthropolatry: Man worship.
anthropolite: A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.
anthropologist: One who is versed in anthropology.
anthropomancy: Divination by the entrails of human being.
anthropometry: Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings,especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations,etc. Dunglison.
anthropomorpha: The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.
anthropomorphic: Of or pertaining to anthromorphism. Hadley.-- An`thro*po*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.
anthropomorphist: One who attributes the human form or other human attributes tothe Deity or to anything not human.
anthropomorphite: One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deityor to a polytheistic deity. Taylor. Specifically, one of a sect ofancient heretics who believed that God has a human form, etc.Tillotson.
anthropomorphitic: to anthropomorphism. Kitto.
anthropomorphitism: Anthropomorphism. Wordsworth.
anthropomorphize: To attribute a human form or personality to.You may see imaginative children every day anthropomorphizing.Lowell.
anthropomorphology: The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.
anthropomorphosis: Transformation into the form of a human being.
anthropomorphous: Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, ananthromorphous plant. "Anthromorphous apes." Darwin.
anthropopathite: One who ascribes human feelings to deity.
anthropophagi: Man eaters; cannibals. Shak.
anthropophaginian: One who east human flesh. [Ludicrous] Shak.
anthropophagite: A cannibal. W. Taylor.
anthropophagous: Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.
anthropophagy: The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.
anthropophuism: Human nature. [R.] Gladstone.
anthroposcopy: The art of discovering or judging of a man's character,passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features. [R.]
anthroposophy: Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.
anthropotomical: Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.
anthropotomist: One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.
anthropotomy: The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy. Owen.
anthypnotic: See Antihypnotic.
anthypochondriac: See Antihypochondriac.
anthysteric: See Antihysteric.
anti: A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, orin place of; -- used in composition in many English words. It isoften shortened to ant-; as, antacid, antarctic.
anti-american: Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to thegenius of American institutions. Marshall.
anti-federalist: One of party opposed to a federative government; -- appliedparticularly to the party which opposed the adoption of theconstitution of the United States. Pickering.
anti-gallican: Opposed to what is Gallic or French.
anti-imperialism: Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the UnitedStates, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude orprinciples of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, ofthose, often called Little Englanders, opposing the extension of theempire and the closer relation of its parts, esp. in matters ofcommerce and imperial defense. -- An`ti-im*pe"ri*al*ist, n. -- An`ti-im*pe`ri*al*is"tic (#), a.
anti-semitism: Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews. -- An`ti-Sem"ite (#), n. -- An`ti-Sem*it"ic (#), a.
anti-trade: A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to thetrade wind.
antiae: The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of somebirds; the frontal points.
antialbumid: A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion.It is convertible into antipeptone.
antialbumose: See Albumose.
antiaphrodisiac: Same as Antaphrodisiac.
antiapoplectic: Same as Antapoplectic.
antiar: A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of onespecies of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).
antiarin: A poisonous principle obtained from antiar. Watts.
antiasthmatic: Same as Antasthmatic.
antiattrition: Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compoundlubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, withsome greasy material; antifriction grease.
antibacchius: A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the lastshort.
antibillous: Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relievebiliousness.
antibody: Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act inantagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteriaproducing the toxins. Normal blood serum apparently containsvariousantibodies, and the introduction of toxins or of foreign cellsalso results in the development of their specific antibodies.
antibrachial: Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.
antibrachium: That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus;the forearm.
antibromic: An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.
antibubonic: Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum,obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilizedbouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.
antiburgher: One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improperto take the Burgess oath.
antic: "Lords of antic fame." Phaer.
antic-mask: An antimask. B. Jonson.
anticatarrhal: Efficacious against catarrh.-- n.
anticathode: The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode. Upon it thecathode rays impinge.
anticausodic: Same as Anticausotic.
anticausotic: Good against an inflammatory fever.-- n.
antichamber: See Antechamber.
antichlor: Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used inremoving the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs afterbleaching.
antichrist: A denier or opponent of Christ. Specif.
antichristian: Opposed to the Christian religion.
antichristianly: In an antichristian manner.
antichronical: Deviating from the proper order of time.-- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.
antichronism: Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism. [R.]Selden.
antichthon: Inhabitants of opposite hemispheres. Whewell.
anticipant: Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.Wakening guilt, anticipant of hell. Southey.
anticipation: The commencing of one or more tones of a chord with or duringthe chord preceding, forming a momentary discord.
anticipative: Anticipating, or containing anticipation. "Anticipative of thefeast to come." Cary.-- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv.
anticipator: One who anticipates.
anticipatory: Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation. Owen.Here is an anticipatory glance of what was to be. J. C. Shairp.
anticivic: Opposed to citizenship.
anticivism: Opposition to the body politic of citizens. [Obs.] Carlyle.
anticlastic: Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinallyin one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as thesurface of a saddle.
anticlimax: A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less importantand striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax. It produces aridiculous effect. Example:Next comes Dalhousie, the great god of war,Lieutenant-colonel to the Earl ANTICLINALAn`ti*cli"nal, a. Etym
anticlinal: The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in oppositedirections.
anticline: A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides ofan axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.
anticlinorium: The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting froma geanticlinal.
anticly: Oddly; grotesquely.
anticness: The quality of being antic. Ford.
anticoherer: A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit ofsilver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus forreading wireless signals. The electric waves falling on thiscontrivance increase its resistance several times. The anticoherercan be used in conjunction with a telephone.
anticonstitutional: Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.
anticontagious: Opposing or destroying contagion.
anticonvulsive: Good against convulsions. J. Floyer.
anticor: A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, justopposite the heart.
anticous: Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrseanthers of the water lily.
anticyclone: A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regardsdirection of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, tothat of a cyclone.-- An`ti*cy*clon"ic, a.-- An`ti*cy*clon"ic*al*ly, adv.
antidiphtheritic: Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli.-- n.
antidotal: Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract theeffects of poison. Sir T. Browne.-- An"ti*do`tal*ly, adv.
antidotary: Antidotal.-- n. Antidote; also, a book of antidotes.
antidotical: Serving as an antidote.-- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv.
antidromous: Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on astem.
antidysenteric: Good against dysentery.-- n.
antiemetic: Same as Antemetic.
antiephialtic: Same as Antephialtic.
antiepileptic: Same as Antepileptic.
antifebrile: Febrifuge.
antifebrine: Acetanilide.
antifriction: Something to lessea. Tending to lessen friction.
antigalastic: Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.
antigraph: A copy or transcript.
antiguggler: A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of abottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment orcausing a gurgling noise.
antihelix: The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or infront of the helix. See Ear.
antihemorrhagic: Tending to stop hemorrhage.-- n.
antihydrophobic: Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia.-- n.
antihydropic: Good against dropsy.-- n.
antihypnotic: Tending to prevent sleep.-- n.
antihypochondriac: Counteractive of hypochondria.-- n.
antihysteric: Counteracting hysteria.-- n.
antiicteric: Good against jaundice.-- n.
antilegomena: Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time notuniversally received, but which are now considered canonical. Theseare the Epistle to the Hebrews, the Epistles of James and Jude, thesecond Epistle of Peter, the second and third Epistles of John, andthe Revelation. The undisputed books are called the Homologoumena.
antilibration: A balancing; equipoise. [R.] De Quincey.
antilithic: Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or todestroy them when formed.-- n.
antilogarithm: The number corresponding to a logarithm. The word has beensometimes, though rarely, used to denote the complement of a givenlogarithm; also the logarithmic cosine corresponding to a givenlogarithmic sine.-- An`ti*log`a*rith"mic, a.
antilogous: Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.Antilogous pole (Eccl.), that pole of a crystal which becomesnegatively electrified when heated.
antilogy: A contradiction between any words or passages in an author. SirW. Hamilton.
antiloimic: A remedy against the plague. Brande & C.
antilopine: Of or relating to the antelope.
antiloquist: A contradicter. [Obs.]
antiloquy: Contradiction. [Obs.]
antilyssic: Antihydrophobic.
antimacassar: A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., toprevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from thehair.
antimagistrical: Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates. [Obs.]South.
antimalarial: Good against malaria.
antimask: A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts ofa serious mask. [Written also anue.] Bacon.
antimason: One opposed to Freemasonry.-- An`ti*ma*son"ic, a.
antimasonry: Opposition to Freemasonry.
antimephitic: Good against mephitic or deletplwious gases.-- n.
antimere: One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; oneof any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.
antimetabole: A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated intransposed order.
antimetathesis: An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverseorder.
antimeter: A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.[Obs.]
antimonarchist: An enemy to monarchial government.
antimonate: A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.[Written also antimoniate.]
antimonial: Of or pertaining to antimony.-- n. (Med.)
antimoniated: Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.
antimonic: Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of thosecompounds of antimony in which this element has its highestequivalence; as, antimonic acid.
antimonious: Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of thosecompounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence nextlower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.
antimonite: A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.
antimoniureted: Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniuretedhydrogen. [Written also antimoniuretted.]
antimonsoon: The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over amonsoon.
antimony: An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearanceand physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging tothe class of nonmetallic substances. Atomic weight, 120. Symbol, Sb.
antinational: Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a nationalgovernment.
antinephritic: Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys.-- n.
antinomian: Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrinethat the moral law is obligatory.
antinomianism: The tenets or practice of Antinomians. South.
antinomist: An Antinomian. [R.] Bp. Sanderson.
antinomy: A contradiction or incompatibility of thought or language; --in the Kantian philosophy, such a contradiction as arises from theattempt to apply to the ideas of the reason, relations or attributeswhich are appropriate only to the facts or the concepts ofexperience.
antiodontalgic: Efficacious in curing toothache.-- n.
antiorgastic: Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.
antipapal: Opposed to the pope or to popery. Milton.
antiparallel: Running in a contrary direction. Hammond.
antiparallels: Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respectopposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.
antiparalytic: Good against paralysis.-- n.
antiparalytical: Antiparalytic.
antipasch: The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
antipathic: Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.
antipathist: One who has an antipathy. [R.] "Antipathist of light."Coleridge.
antipathize: To feel or show antipathy. [R.]
antipathous: Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic. [Obs.]Beau. & Fl.
antipeptone: A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing fromhemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action ofpancreatic juice.
antiperiodic: A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return ofperiodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittentfevers.
antiperistaltic: Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to aninverted action of the intestinal tube.
antiperistasis: Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength;resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of anopposite principle or quality.
antiperistatic: Pertaining to antiperistasis.
antipetalous: Standing before a petal, as a stamen.
antipharmic: Antidotal; alexipharmic.
antiphlogistian: An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.
antiphlogistic: Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.
antiphonal: Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sungalternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs. Wheatly.-- An*tiph"o*nal*ly, adv.
antiphonary: A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in whichthe antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, arecontained.
antiphone: The response which one side of the choir makes to the other ina chant; alternate chanting or signing.
antiphoner: A book of antiphons. Chaucer.
antiphonic: Antiphonal.
antiphrasis: The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning;as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.
antiphthisic: Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption.-- n.
antiphysical: Contrary to nature; unnatural.
antiplastic: Preventing or checking the process of healing, or granulation.
antipodagric: Good against gout.-- n.
antipode: One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.In tale or history your beggar is ever the just antipode to yourking. Lamb.
antipodean: Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world;antipodal.
antipole: The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed. Geo. Eliot.
antipope: One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to thepope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided atAvignon during the Great Schism.
antipsoric: Of use in curing the itch.-- n.
antiptosis: The putting of one case for another.
antipyic: Checking or preventing suppuration.-- n.
antipyresis: The condition or state of being free from fever.
antipyretic: Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever.-- n.
antipyrine: An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abatingfever.
antipyrotic: Good against burns or pyrosis.-- n.
antiquarian: Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarianliterature.
antiquarianism: Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.Warburton.
antiquarianize: To act the part of an antiquary. [Colloq.]
antiquary: Pertaining to antiquity. [R.] "Instructed by the antiquarytimes." Shak.
antiquate: To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in sucha degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.Christianity might reasonably introduce new laws, and antiquate orabrogate old one. Sir M. Hale.
antiquated: Grown old. Hence
antiquatedness: Quality of being antiquated.
antiquateness: Antiquatedness. [Obs.]
antiquation: The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.Beaumont.
antique: In general, anything very old; but in a more limited sense, arelic or object of ancient art; collectively, the antique, theremains of ancient art, as busts, statues, paintings, and vases.Misshapen monuments and maimed antiques. Byron.
antiquely: In an antique manner.
antiqueness: The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient originand workmanship.We may discover something venerable in the antiqueness of the work.Addison.
antiquist: An antiquary; a collector of antiques. [R.] Pinkerton.
antiquitarian: An admirer of antiquity.
antirachitic: Good against the rickets.
antirenter: One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons fromthe settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York.-- An`ti*rent"ism, n.
antisabbatarian: One of a sect which opposes the observance of the ChristianSabbath.
antisacerdotal: Hostile to priests or the priesthood. Waterland.
antiscorbutic: Counteracting scurvy.-- n.
antiscorbutical: Antiscorbutic.
antiscriptural: Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.
antisepalous: Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.
antisepsis: Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.
antiseptic: A substance which prevents or retards putrefaction, ordestroys, or protects from, putrefactive organisms; as, salt,carbolic acid, alcohol, cinchona.
antiseptically: By means of antiseptics.
antisialagogue: Checking the flow of saliva.
antislavery: Opposed to slavery.-- n.
antisocial: Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse tosociety, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.
antisocialist: One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists orsocialism.
antisolar: Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180distant from the sun.
antispasmodic: Good against spasms.-- n.
antispast: A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and thesecond and third long.
antispastic: An antispastic agent.
antisplenetic: Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen.-- n.
antistrophic: Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.
antistrophon: An argument retorted on an opponent. Milton.
antistrumatic: Antistrumous.-- n.
antistrumous: Good against scrofulous disorders. Johnson. Wiseman.
antisyphilitic: Efficacious against syphilis.-- n.
antitheism: The doctrine of antitheists.-- An`ti*the*is"tic, a.
antitheist: A disbeliever in the existence of God.
antithesis: An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring inthe same sentence; as, "The prodigal robs his heir; the miser robshimself." "He had covertly shot at Cromwell; he how openly aimed atthe Queen."
antithet: An antithetic or contrasted statement. Bacon.
antithetically: By way antithesis.
antitragus: A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha ofthe external ear, opposite the tragus. See Ear.
antitrochanter: An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which thegreat trochanter of the femur plays.
antitypal: Antitypical. [R.]
antitype: That of which the type pattern or representation; that which isrepresented by the type or symbol.
antitypical: Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type.-- An`ti*typ"ic*al*ly, adv.
antitypous: Resisting blows; hard. [Obs.] Cudworth.
antitypy: Opposition or resistance of matter to force. [R.] Sir W.Hamilton.
antivaccination: Opposition to vaccination. London Times.
antivaccinationist: An antivaccinist.
antivaccinist: One opposed to vaccination.
antivariolous: Preventing the contagion of smallpox.
antivenereal: Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.
antivenin: The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeatedinjections of small doses of the venom.
antivivisection: Opposition to vivisection.
antivivisectionist: One opposed to vivisection
antizymic: Preventing fermentation.
antizymotic: Preventing fermentation or decomposition.-- n.
antler: The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervineanimal, as of a stag.Huge stags with sixteen antlers. Macaulay.
antlered: Furnished with antlers.The antlered stag. Cowper.
antlia: The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. SeeLepidoptera.
antonomasia: The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, orthe like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when hismajesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say,the philosopher; or, conversely, the use of a proper name instead ofan appellative, as when a wise man is called a Solomon, or an eminentorator a Cicero.
antonomastic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia.-- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv.
antonomasy: Antonomasia.
antonym: A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as acorrelative of synonym. [R.] C. J. Smith.
antorbital: Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of theorbit.-- n.
antorgastic: See Antiorgastic.
antozone: A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, butnow known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparentlyantagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.
antral: Relating to an antrum.
antre: A cavern. [Obs.] Shak.
antrorse: Forward or upward in direction. Gray.
antrovert: To bend forward. [R.] Owen.
antrum: A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus. Huxley.
antrustion: A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in theirenterprises.
anubis: An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits,represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.
anura: One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence ofa tail, as the frogs and toads. [Written also anoura.]
anurous: Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads. [Also writtenanourous.]
anury: Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.
anus: The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through whichthe excrements are expelled.
anvil: the incus. See Incus. To be on the anvil, to be in a state ofdiscussion, formation, or preparation, as when a scheme or measure isforming, but not matured. Swift.
anxietude: The state of being anxious; anxiety. [R.]
anxiety: A state of restlessness and agitation, often with generalindisposition and a distressing sense of oppression at theepigastrium. Dunglison.
anxiously: In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.
anxiousness: The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.
any: To any extent; in any degree; at all.You are not to go loose any longer. Shak.Before you go any farther. Steele.
anyhow: In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.Anyhow, it must be acknowledged to be not a simple selforiginatederror. J. H. Newman.Anyhow, the languages of the two nations were closely allied. E. A.Freeman.
anyone: One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody.
anything: In any measure; anywise; at all.Mine old good will and hearty affection towards you is not . . .anything at all quailed. Robynson (More's Utopia).
anythingarian: One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.
anywhere: In any place. Udall.
anywhither: To or towards any place. [Archaic] De Foe.
anywise: In any wise or way; at all. "Anywise essential." Burke.
aonian: Pertaining to Aonia, Boeotia, or to the Muses, who weresupposed to dwell there. Aonian fount, the fountain of Aganippe, atthe foot of Mount Helicon, not far from Thebes, and sacred to theMuses.
aorist: A tense in the Greek language, which expresses an action ascompleted in past time, but leaves it, in other respects, whollyindeterminate.
aoristic: Indefinite; pertaining to the aorist tense.
aorta: The great artery which carries the blood from the heart to allparts of the body except the lungs; the main trunk of the arterialsystem.
aortic: Of or pertaining to the aorta.
aortitis: Inflammation of the aorta.
aoudad: An African sheeplike quadruped (the Ammotragus tragelaphus)having a long mane on the breast and fore legs. It is, perhaps, thechamois of the Old Testament.
apace: With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.His dewy locks did drop with brine apace. Spenser.A visible triumph of the gospel drawapace. I. Taylor.
apaches: A group of nomadic North American Indians including severaltribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.
apagoge: An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing theimpossibility or absurdity of the contrary.
apaid: Paid; pleased. [Obs.] Chaucer.
apair: To impair or become impaired; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
apalachian: See Appalachian.
apanage: Same as Appanage.
apanthropy: An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.
aparejo: A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service andamong the Spanish Americans. It is made of leather stuffed with hay,moss, or the like.
aparithmesis: Enumeration of parts or particulars.
apartment house: A building comprising a number of suites designed for separatehousekeeping tenements, but having conveniences, such as heat, light,elevator service, etc., furnished in common; -- often distinguishedin the United States from a flat house.
apartness: The quality of standing apart.
apastron: That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller staris farthest from its primary.
apathetically: In an apathetic manner.
apathist: One who is destitute of feeling.
apathistical: Apathetic; une motional. [R.]
apathy: Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement;dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind. As applied tothe mind, it is a calmness, indolence, or state of indifference,incapable of being ruffled or roused to active interest or exertionby pleasure, pain, or passion. "The apathy of despair." Macaulay.A certain apathy or sluggishness in his nature which led him . . . toleave events to take their own course. Prescott.According to the Stoics, apathy meant the extinction of the passionsby the ascendency of reason. Fleming.
apatite: Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sidedprisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.
apaume: See Appaum.
ape: A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teethof the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the samenumber and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheekpouches. The name is applied esp. to species of the genus Hylobates,and is sometimes used as a general term for all Quadrumana. Thehigher forms, the gorilla, chimpanzee, and ourang, are often calledanthropoid apes or man apes.
apeak: In a vertical line. The anchor in apeak, when the cable hasbeen sufficiently hove in to bring the ship over it, and the ship isthem said to be hove apeak. [Spelt also apeek.]
apehood: The state of being an ape.
apellous: Destitute of skin. Brande & C.
apennine: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain ofmountains extending through Italy.
apepsy: Defective digestion, indigestion. Coxe.
aper: One who apes.
apercu: A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation soobtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative ratherthan analytic.
aperea: The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).
aperient: Gently opening the bowels; laxative.-- n.
aperitive: Serving to open; aperient. Harvey.
apert: Open; ev [Archaic] Fotherby.
apertion: The act of opening; an opening; an aperture. [Archaic] Wiseman.
apertly: Openly; clearly. [Archaic]
apertness: Openness; frankness. [Archaic]
aperture: The diameter of the exposed part of the object glass of atelescope or other optical instrument; as, a telescope of four-inchaperture.
apetalous: Having no petals, or flower leaves. [See Illust. under Anther].
apetalousness: The state of being apetalous.
apex: The end or edge of a vein nearest the surface. [U.S.] Apex ofthe earth's motion (Astron.), that point of the heavens toward whichthe earth is moving in its orbit.
aphaeresis: Same as Apheresis.
aphakia: An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of thecrystalline lens, as after operations for cataract. The remedy is theuse of powerful convex lenses. Dunglison.
aphakial: Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.
aphaniptera: A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. SeeFlea.
aphanipterous: Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.
aphanite: A very compact, dark-colored
aphanitic: Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.
aphasic: Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.
aphelion: That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distantfrom the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.
apheliotropic: Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.
apheliotropism: The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certainplants.
aphemia: Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power ofwriting; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.
apheresis: The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of aword; e. g., cute for acute.
aphesis: The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of aword; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.New Eng. Dict.
aphetic: Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginningof a word; as, an aphetic word or form.-- A*phet"ic*al*ly, adv. New Eng. Dict.
aphetism: An aphetized form of a word. New Eng. Dict.
aphetize: To shorten by aphesis.These words . . . have been aphetized. New Eng. Dict.
aphid: One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.
aphides: See Aphis.
aphidian: Of or pertaining to the family Aphidæ.-- n.
aphidivorous: Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.
aphidophagous: Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of thefamily Coccinellidæ.
aphilanthropy: Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy. Coxe.
aphis: A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and familyAphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and greenflies.
aphis lion: The larva of the lacewinged flies (Chrysopa), which feedsvoraciously upon aphids. The name is also applied to the larvæ of theladybugs (Coccinella).
aphlogistic: Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire iskept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.
aphorism: A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; asharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than topractical matters.The first aphorism of Hippocrates is, "Life is short, and the art islong." Fleming.
aphorismer: A dealer in aphorisms. [Used in derogation or contempt.]Milton.
aphorist: A writer or utterer of aphorisms.
aphoristically: In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.
aphorize: To make aphorisms.
aphotic: Without light.
aphotic region: A depth of water so great that only those organisms can existthat do not assimilate.
aphrite: See under Calcite.
aphrodisiac: That which (as a drug, or some kinds of food) excites tovenery.
aphrodisian: Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus. "Aphrodisian dames" [that is,courtesans]. C. Reade.
aphrodite: The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of theRomans.
aphroditic: Venereal. [R.] Dunglison.
aphthae: Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on thelips, etc., terminating in white sloughs. They are commonlycharacteristic of thrush.
aphthoid: Of the nature of aphthæ; resembling thrush.
aphthong: A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling aword, but in the pronunciation having no sound.-- Aph*thon"gal, a.
aphthous: Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthæ; characterized by aphtæ;as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.
aphyllous: Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceousplants, etc.
apiaceous: Umbelliferous.
apian: Belonging to bees.
apiarian: Of or relating to bees.
apiarist: One who keeps an apiary.
apiary: A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; abeehouse.
apical: At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit. Gray.
apices: See Apex.
apician: Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence appliedto whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.H. Rogers.
apicular: Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.
apiculture: Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.
apiece: Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share ofeach; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece. "Fined . . . athousand pounds apiece." Hume.
apieces: In pieces or to pieces. [Obs.] "Being torn apieces." Shak.
apiked: Trimmed. [Obs.]Full fresh and new here gear apiked was. Chaucer.
apiol: An oily liquid derived from parsley.
apiologist: A student of bees. [R.] Emerson.
apiology: The scientific or systematic study of honey bees.
apis: A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including thecommon honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species. SeeHoneybee.
apish: Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servilemanner. Hence
apishly: In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.
apishness: The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.
apitpat: With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat. Congreve.
aplacental: Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.
aplacentata: Mammals which have no placenta.
aplacophora: A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or coveredwith slender spines or setæ, but is without shelly plates.
aplanatic: Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combinedas to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens. Aplanatic focusof a lens (Opt.), the point or focus from which rays diverging passthe lens without spherical aberration. In certain forms of lensesthere are two such foci; and it is by taking advantage of this factthat the best aplanatic object glasses of microscopes areconstructed.
aplanatism: Freedom from spherical aberration.
aplanogamete: A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algæ.
aplasia: Incomplete or faulty development.
aplastic: Not plastic or easily molded.
aplomb: Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.
aplotomy: Simple incision. Dunglison.
aplustre: An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usuallyspreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather. Audsley.
aplysia: A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; thesea hare. Some of the species when disturbed throw out a deep purpleliquor, which colors the water to some distance. See Illust. inAppendix.
apneumatic: Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also,effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation.
apneumona: An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratoryorgans are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.
apo: A prefix from a Greek preposition. It usually signifies from,away from, off, or asunder, separate; as, in apocope (a cutting off),apostate, apostle (one sent away), apocarpous.
apocalypse: Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to theRevelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a propheticrevelation. Apocolyptic number, the number 666, mentioned in Rev.xiii. 18. It has been variously interpreted.
apocalyptically: By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.
apocarpous: Either entirely of partially separate, as the carpels of acompound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous. Lindley.
apochromatic: Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of alens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the samefocus, the degree of achromatism thus obtained being more completethan where two rays only are thus focused, as in the ordinaryachromatic objective. --Ap`o*chro"ma*tism (#), n.
apocodeine: An alkaloid, , prepared from codeine. In its effects itresembles apomorphine.
apocopate: To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the lastletter, syllable, or part of a word.
apocopation: Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.
apocope: A cutting off; abscission.
apocrustic: Astringent and repellent.-- n.
apocryphalist: One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha. [R.]
apocryphally: In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.
apocryphalness: The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness ofcredit or genuineness.
apocynin: A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynumcannabinum).
apodan: Apodal.
apodeme: One of the processes of the shell which project inwards andunite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.
apodictic: Same as Apodeictic.
apodixis: Full demonstration.
apodosis: The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence,expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis orclause which expresses a condition. Thus, in the sentence, "Though heslay me, yet will I trust in him," the former clause is the protasis,and the latter the apodosis.
apodous: Apodal; apod.
apodyterium: The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra,where one stripped; a dressing room.
apogaic: Apogean.
apogamic: Relating to apogamy.
apogamy: The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule oroöspore. De Bary.
apogeal: Apogean.
apogean: Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, whichoccur when the moon has passed her apogee.
apogee: That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatestdistance from the earth.
apogeotropic: Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.
apogeotropism: The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.
apograph: A copy or transcript. Blount.
apohyal: Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.
apoise: Balanced.
apolar: Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly tocertain nerve cells.
apolaustic: Devoted to enjoyment.
apollinarian: In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.
apollinaris water: An effervescing alkaline mineral water used as a tablebeverage. It is obtained from a spring in Apollinarisburg, near Bonn.
apollo: A deity among the Greeks and Romans. He was the god of lightand day (the "sun god"), of archery, prophecy, medicine, poetry, andmusic, etc., and was represented as the model of manly grace andbeauty; -- called also Phébus. The Apollo Belvedere, a celebratedstatue of Apollo in the Belvedere gallery of the Vatican palace atRome, esteemed of the noblest representations of the human frame.
apollyon: The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel ofthe bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.
apologer: A teller of apologues. [Obs.]
apologetically: By way of apology.
apologetics: That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, andsets forth the evidence of their divine authority.
apologist: One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defenseof a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues indefense of Christianity.
apologize: To defend. [Obs.]The Christians . . . were apologized by Plinie. Dr. G. Benson.
apologizer: One who makes an apology; an apologist.
apologue: A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to conveysome moral truth; a moral fable.
apology: To offer an apology. [Obs.]For which he can not well apology. J. Webster.
apomecometer: An instrument for measuring the height of objects. Knight.
apomecometry: The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off. [Obs. orR.]
aponeurosis: Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciæ whichcover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles.They often differ from tendons only in being flat and thin. SeeFascia.
aponeurotic: Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.
aponeurotomy: Dissection of aponeuroses.
apopemptic: Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplecticsongs or hymns.
apophasis: A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice ofa favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effectdesired. [For example, see Mark Antony's oration. Shak., JuliusCæsar, iii. 2.]
apophlegmatic: Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouthor nostrils.-- n.
apophlegmatism: The action of apophlegmatics.
apophlegmatizant: An apophlegmatic. [Obs.]
apophthegm: See Apothegm.
apophyge: The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of theshaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; --called also the scape. Parker.
apophyllite: A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in squareprisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. Itis a hydrous silicate of calcium and potassium.
apophysis: A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.
apoplectic: One liable to, or affected with, apoplexy.
apoplex: Apoplexy. [Obs.] Dryden.
apoplexed: Affected with apoplexy. [Obs.] Shak.
apoplexy: Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, andvoluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.
aporetical: Doubting; skeptical. [Obs.] Cudworth.
aporia: A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss whatcourse to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.
aporosa: A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposedto Perforata.
aporose: Without pores.
aport: On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.
aposematic: Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors orstructures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, asin the skunk.
aposiopesis: A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, asif unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as, "I declareto you that his conduct -- but I can not speak of that, here."
apositic: Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.
apostasy: An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a totaldesertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp.,the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy fromChristianity.
apostate: One who, after having received sacred orders, renounces hisclerical profession.
apostatic: Apostatical. [R.]
apostatical: Apostate.An heretical and apostatical church. Bp. Hall.
apostatize: To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; toforsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the partyto which one has previously adhered.He apostatized from his old faith in facts, took to believing inCarlyle.
apostemate: To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus. Wiseman.
apostemation: The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.[Written corruptly imposthumation.] Wiseman.
apostematous: Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.
aposteme: An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter. [Writtencorruptly imposthume.]
apostle: A brief letter dimissory sent by a court appealed from to thesuperior court, stating the case, etc.; a paper sent up on appeals inthe admiralty courts. Wharton. Burrill. Apostles' creed, a creed ofunknown origin, which was formerly ascribed to the apostles. Itcertainly dates back to the beginning of the sixth century, and someassert that it can be found in the writings of Ambrose in the fourthcentury.-- Apostle spoon (Antiq.), a spoon of silver, with the handleterminating in the figure of an apostle. One or more were offered bysponsors at baptism as a present to the godchild. B. Jonson.
apostleship: The office or dignity of an apostle.
apostolic: A member of one of certain ascetic sects which at various timesprofessed to imitate the practice of the apostles.
apostolic delegate: The diplomatic agent of the pope highest in grade, superior toa nuncio.
apostolically: In an apostolic manner.
apostolicalness: Apostolicity. Dr. H. More.
apostrophe: A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenlybreaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses,in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as,Milton's apostrophe to Light at the beginning of the third book of"Paradise Lost."
apostrophic: Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.
apostrophize: To use the rhetorical figure called apostrophe.
apostume: See Aposteme. [Obs.]
apotactite: One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitationof the first believers, renounced all their possessions.
apotelesm: The calculation and explanation of a nativity. [Obs.] Bailey.
apothecary: One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinalpurposes.
apothecium: The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses ofvarious shapes.
apothegmatist: A collector or maker of apothegms. Pope.
apothegmatize: To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.
apothem: The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of aregular polygon.
apotheosize: To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; todeify; to glorify.
apotome: The difference between two quantities commensurable only inpower, as between sq. root2 and 1, or between the diagonal and sideof a square.
apozem: A decoction or infusion. [Obs.] Wiseman.
apozemical: Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction. [Obs.] J. Whitaker.
appair: To impair; to grow worse. [Obs.]
appalachian: Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States,commonly called the Allegheny mountains.
appall: Terror; dismay. [Poet.] Cowper.
appalling: Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident.-- Ap*pall"ing*ly, adv.
appallment: Depression occasioned by terror; dismay. [Obs.] Bacon.
appanagist: A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.
apparaillyng: Preparation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
apparatus: A collection of organs all of which unite in a common function;as, the respiratory apparatus.
apparel: The furniture of a ship, as masts, sails, rigging, anchors,guns, etc.
apparence: Appearance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
apparent: An heir apparent. [Obs.]I'll draw it [the sword] as apparent to the crown. Shak.
apparentness: Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.[R.] Sherwood.
apparition: The first appearance of a star or other luminary after havingbeen invisible or obscured; -- opposed to occultation. Circle ofperpetual apparition. See under Circle.
apparitional: Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral. "Anapparitional soul." Tylor.
apparitor: A messenger or officer who serves the process of anecclesiastical court. Bouvier.
appaume: A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.
appay: To pay; to satisfy or appease. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
appeach: To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; toreproach. [Obs.]And oft of error did himself appeach. Spenser.
appeacher: An accuser. [Obs.] Raleigh.
appeachment: Accusation. [Obs.]
appeal: To apply for the removal of a cause from an inferior to asuperior judge or court for the purpose of reëxamination of fordecision. Tomlins.I appeal unto Cæsar. Acts xxv. 11.
appealant: An appellant. [Obs.] Shak.
appealer: One who makes an appeal.
appealing: That appeals; imploring.-- Ap*peal"*ing*ly, adv.-- Ap*peal"ing*ness, n.
appear: Appearance. [Obs.] J. Fletcher.
appearance: The coming into court of either of the parties; the beingpresent in court; the coming into court of a party summoned in anaction, either by himself or by his attorney, expressed by a formalentry by the proper officer to that effect; the act or proceeding bywhich a party proceeded against places himself before the court, andsubmits to its jurisdiction. Burrill. Bouvier. Daniell. To put in anappearance, to be present; to appear in person.-- To save appearances, to preserve a fair outward show.
appearer: One who appears. Sir T. Browne.
appearingly: Apparently. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
appeasable: Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable.-- Ap*peas"a*ble*ness, n.
appease: To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; tostill; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease thetumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.
appeasement: The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased;pacification. Hayward.
appeaser: One who appeases; a pacifier.
appeasive: Tending to appease.
appel: A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; --called also attack.
appellable: Appealable.
appellancy: Capability of appeal.
appellant: Relating to an appeal; appellate. "An appellant jurisdiction."Hallam. Party appellant (Law), the party who appeals; appellant; --opposed to respondent, or appellee. Tomlins.
appellate: Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals. "Appellatejurisdiction." Blackstone. "Appellate judges." Burke. Appelate court,a court having cognizance of appeals.
appellative: Common, as opposed to proper; denominative of a class.
appellatively: After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to expresswhole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes usedappellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.
appellativeness: The quality of being appellative. Fuller.
appellatory: Containing an appeal.An appellatory libel ought to contain the name of the partyappellant. Ayliffe.
appenage: See Appanage.
appendage: A subordinate or subsidiary part or organ; an external organ orlimb, esp. of the articulates.Antennæ and other appendages used for feeling. Carpenter.
appendaged: Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.
appendance: Something appendant.
appendant: Appended by prescription, that is, a personal usage for aconsiderable time; -- said of a thing of inheritance belonging toanother inheritance which is superior or more worthy; as, anadvowson, common, etc. , which may be appendant to a manor, common offishing to a freehold, a seat in church to a house. Wharton. Coke.
appendical: Of or like an appendix.
appendicate: To append. [Obs.]
appendication: An appendage. [Obs.]
appendicitis: Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.
appendicle: A small appendage.
appendicular: Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate. [R.]
appendicularia: A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like atadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvæ of otherTunicata. It is the type of the order Copelata or Larvalia. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
appendiculata: An order of annelids; the Polychæta.
appendiculate: Having small appendages; forming an appendage. Appendiculateleaf, a small appended leaf. Withering.
appendix vermiformis: The vermiform appendix.
appension: The act of appending. [Obs.]
apperceive: To perceive; to comprehend. Chaucer.
apperception: The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in itsown states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes,intensified or energetic perception. Leibnitz. Reid.This feeling has been called by philosophers the apperception orconsciousness of our own existence. Sir W. Hamilton.
apperil: Peril. [Obs.] Shak.
appertain: To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, orcustom; to relate.Things appertaining to this life. Hooker.Give it unto him to whom it appertaineth. Lev. vi. 5.
appertainment: That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance. [Obs. orR.] Shak.
appertinent: Belonging; appertaining. [Now usually written appurtenant.]Coleridge.
appete: To seek for; to desire. [Obs.] Chaucer.
appetence: A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite;appetency.
appetent: Desiring; eagerly desirous. [R.]Appetent after glory and renown. Sir G. Buck.
appetibility: The quality of being desirable. Bramhall.
appetible: Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.Bramhall.
appetition: Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something. Holland.
appetitive: Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitivepower or faculty. Sir M. Hale.
appetize: To make hungry; to whet the appetite of. Sir W. Scott.
appetizer: Something which creates or whets an appetite.
appetizing: Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.The appearance of the wild ducks is very appetizing. Sir W. Scott.
appian: Of or pertaining to Appius. Appian Way, the great paved highwayfrom ancient Rome trough Capua to Brundisium, now Brindisi,constructed partly by Appius Claudius, about 312 b. c.
applaud: To express approbation loudly or significantly.
applauder: One who applauds.
applausable: Worthy pf applause; praiseworthy. [Obs.]
applause: The act of applauding; approbation and praise publiclyexpressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet,acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.The brave man seeks not popular applause. Dryden.
applausive: Expressing applause; approbative.-- Ap*plau"sive*ly, adv.
apple: Any tree genus Pyrus which has the stalk sunken into the baseof the fruit; an apple tree.
apple pie: A pie made of apples (usually sliced or stewed) with spice andsugar. Apple-pie bed, a bed in which, as a joke, the sheets are sodoubled (like the cover of an apple turnover) as to prevent any onefrom getting at his length between them. Halliwell, Conybeare.-- Apple-pie order, perfect order or arrangement. [Colloq.]Halliwell.
apple-faced: Having a round, broad face, like an apple. "Apple-facedchildren." Dickens.
apple-jack: Apple brandy. [U.S.]
apple-john: A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; --called also Johnapple. Shak.
apple-squire: A pimp; a kept gallant. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
appliable: Applicable; also, compliant. [Obs.] Howell.
applicability: The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.
applicable: Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; havingrelevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case underconsideration.-- Ap"pli*ca*ble*ness, n.-- Ap"pli*ca*bly, adv.
applicancy: The quality or state of being applicable. [R.]
applicant: One who apples for something; one who makes request; apetitioner.The applicant for a cup of water. Plumtre.The court require the applicant to appear in person. Z. Swift.
applicate: Applied or put to some use.Those applicate sciences which extend the power of man over theelements. I. Taylor.Applicate number (Math.), one which applied to some concrete case.-- Applicate ordinate, right line applied at right angles to theaxis of any conic section, and bounded by the curve.
applicative: Having of being applied or used; applying; applicatory;practical. Bramhall.-- Ap"pli*ca*tive*ly, adv.
applicatorily: By way of application.
applicatory: Having the property of applying; applicative; practical.-- n.
appliedly: By application. [R.]
applier: He who, or that which, applies.
appliment: Application. [Obs.] Marston
applique: Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of anothercolor or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliquélace; appliqué work.
applot: To divide into plots or parts; to apportion. Milton.
applotment: Apportionment.
appoggiatura: A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing thetime it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note onedegree above or below the principal note unless it be of the sameharmony; -- generally indicated by a note of smaller size, as in theillustration above. It forms no essential part of the harmony.
appoint: To direct, designate, or limit; to make or direct a newdisposition of, by virtue of a power contained in a conveyance; --said of an estate already conveyed. Burrill. Kent. To appoint one'sself, to resolve. [Obs.] Crowley.
appointable: Capable of being appointed or constituted.
appointee: A person in whose favor a power of appointment is executed.Kent. Wharton.
appointer: One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment. Kent.
appointive: Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office. [R.]
appointment: The exercise of the power of designating (under a "power ofappointment") a person to enjoy an estate or other specific property;also, the instrument by which the designation is made.
appointor: The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.
apporter: A bringer in; an importer. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
apportion: To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide anddistribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportionundivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.
apportionateness: The quality of being apportioned or in proportion. [Obs. & R.]
apportioner: One who apportions.
apportionment: The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions orshares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to eachproprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property. A.Hamilton.
apposable: Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as thethumb to the fingers of the hand.
appose: To put questions to; to examine; to try. [Obs.] See Pose.To appose him without any accuser, and that secretly. Tyndale.
apposed: Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of abird's beak.
apposer: An examiner; one whose business is to put questions. Formerly,in the English Court of Exchequer, an officer who audited thesheriffs' accounts.
apposite: Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat;-- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case.-- Ap"po*site*ly, adv.-- Ap"po*site*ness, n.
apposition: The state of two nouns or pronouns, put in the same case,without a connecting word between them; as, I admire Cicero, theorator. Here, the second noun explains or characterizes the first.Growth by apposition (Physiol.), a mode of growth characteristic ofnon vascular tissues, in which nutritive matter from the blood istransformed on the surface of an organ into solid unorganizedsubstance.
appositional: Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.Ellicott.
appositive: Of or relating to apposition; in apposition.-- n.
appraisable: Capable of being appraised.
appraisal: A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.
appraisement: The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser;estimation of worth.
appraiser: One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn toestimate and fix the value of goods or estates.
apprecation: Earnest prayer; devout wish. [Obs.]A solemn apprecation of good success. Bp. Hall.
apprecatory: Praying or wishing good. [Obs.]"Apprecatory benedictions." Bp.Hall.
appreciable: Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to beestimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity.-- Ap*pre"ci*a*bly, adv.
appreciant: Appreciative. [R.]
appreciate: To rise in value. [See note under Rise, v. i.] J. Morse.
appreciatingly: In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.
appreciative: Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception;as, an appreciative audience.-- Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.
appreciativeness: The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition ofexcellence.
appreciator: One who appreciates.
appreciatory: Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatorycommendation.-- Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ri*ly, adv.
apprehender: One who apprehends.
apprehensibiity: The quality of being apprehensible. [R.] De Quincey.
apprehensible: Capable of being apprehended or conceived. "Apprehensible byfaith." Bp. Hall.-- Ap`*pre*hen"si*bly, adv.
apprehensively: In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.
apprehensiveness: The quality or state of being apprehensive.
apprentice: A barrister, considered a learner of law till of sixteen years'standing, when he might be called to the rank of serjeant. [Obs.]Blackstone.
apprenticeage: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]
apprenticehood: Apprenticeship. [Obs.]
apprenticeship: Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its wholelength, as against a stem, Gray.
apprise: To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed byof; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; heapprised the commander of what he had done.
apprizal: See Appraisal.
apprize: To appraise; to value; to appreciate.
apprizement: Appraisement.
apprizer: A creditor for whom an appraisal is made. Sir W. Scott.
approach: To take approaches to.
approachability: The quality of being approachable; approachableness.
approachable: Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachablevirtue.
approachableness: The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.
approacher: One who approaches.
approaching: The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree intoanother, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also,inarching and grafting by approach.
approachless: Impossible to be approached.
approachment: Approach. [Archaic] Holland.
approbate: Approved. [Obs.] Elyot.
approbative: Approving, or implying approbation. Milner.
approbativeness: Love of approbation.
approbator: One who approves. [R.]
approbatory: Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory. Sheldon.
appromt: To quicken; to prompt. [Obs.]To appromt our invention. Bacon.
appropinquate: To approach. [Archaic] Ld. Lytton.
appropinquation: A drawing nigh; approach. [R.] Bp. Hall.
appropinquity: Nearness; propinquity. [R.] J. Gregory.
appropre: To appropriate. [Obs.] Fuller.
appropriable: Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, orassigned exclusively to a particular use. Sir T. Browne.
appropriament: What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.[Obs.]If you can neglect Your own appropriaments. Ford.
appropriate: Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence
appropriately: In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.
appropriateness: The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.Froude.
appropriative: Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, anappropriative act.-- Ap*pro"pri*a*tive*ness, n.
appropriator: A spiritual corporation possessed of an appropriated benefice;also, an impropriator.
approvable: Worthy of being approved; meritorious.-- Ap*prov"a*ble*ness, n.
approval: Approbation; sanction.A censor . . . without whose approval nTemple.
approvance: Approval. [Archaic] Thomson.
approve: To make profit of; to convert to one's own profit; said esp. ofwaste or common land appropriated by the lord of the manor.
approvedly: So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.
approvement: a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason orfelony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a givingevidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon. The term isno longer in use; it corresponded to what is now known as turningking's (or queen's) evidence in England, and state's evidence in theUnited States. Burrill. Bouvier.
approver: One who confesses a crime and accuses another. See 1stApprovement, 2.
approving: Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile.-- Ap*prov"ing*ly, adv.
approximate: To draw; to approach.
approximately: With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.
approximative: Approaching; approximate.-- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ly, adv.-- Ap*prox"i*ma*tive*ness, n.
approximator: One who, or that which, approximates.
appui: A support or supporter; a stay; a prop. [Obs.]If a be to climb trees that are of any great height, there would bestays and appuies set to it. Holland.Point d'appui. Etym
appulse: The near approach of one heavenly body to another, or to themeridian; a coming into conjunction; as, the appulse of the moon to astar, or of a star to the meridian.
appulsion: A driving or striking against; an appulse.
appulsive: Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of theplanets. P. Cyc.
appulsively: By appulsion.
appurtenance: That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage;an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; incommon parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to anotherthing as principal, and which passes as incident to it, as a right ofway, or other easement to land; a right of common to pasture, anouthouse, barn, garden, or orchard, to a house or messuage. In astrict legal sense, land can never pass as an appurtenance to land.Tomlins. Bouvier. Burrill.Globes . . . provided as appurtenances to astronomy. Bacon.The structure of the eye, and of its appurtenances. Reid.
appurtenant: Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory;incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.Blackstone. Common appurtenatn. (Law) See under Common, n.
apricate: To bask in the sun. Boyle.
aprication: Basking in the sun. [R.]
apricot: A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, anddelicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnæus) whichbears this fruit. By cultivation it has been introduced throughoutthe temperate zone.
apriorism: An a priori principle.
apriority: The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior toexperience; a priori reasoning.
aprocta: A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.
aproctous: Without an anal office.
apron man: A man who wears an apron; a laboring man; a mechanic. [Obs.]Shak.
apron string: The string of an apron. To be tied to a wife's or mother'sapron strings, to be unduly controlled by a wife or mother.He was so made that he could not submit to be tied to the apronstrings even of the best of wives. Macaulay.
aproned: Wearing an apron.A cobbler aproned, and a parson gowned. Pope.
apronful: The quality an apron can hold.
apronless: Without an apron.
apsidal: Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.
apsides: See Apsis.
apsis: One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite,which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body,corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet, or to theapogee and perigee of the moon. The more distant is called the higherapsis; the other, the lower apsis; and the line joining them, theline of apsides.
apt: To fit; to suit; to adapt. [Obs.] " To apt their places." B.Jonson.That our speech be apted to edification. Jer. Taylor.
aptable: Capable of being adapted. [Obs.] Sherwood.
aptate: To make fit. [Obs.] Bailey
aptera: Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnæn order ofinsects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders,centipeds, and even worms. These animals are now placed in severaldistinct classes and orders.
apteral: Apterous.
apteran: One of the Aptera.
apteria: Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. SeePteryliæ.
apterous: Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.
apteryges: An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.
apteryx: A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with onlyshort rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; thekiwi. It is allied to the gigantic extinct moas of the same country.Five species are known.
aptitudinal: Suitable; fit. [Obs.]
aptly: In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently;appropriately; readily.
aptote: A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.
aptotic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as,aptotic languages.
aptychus: A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammoniteshells. Some authors consider them to be jaws; others, opercula.
apus: A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.
apyretic: Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermissionof fever. Dunglison.
apyrexial: Relating to apyrexy. "Apyrexial period." Brande & C.
apyrous: Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat withoutalteration of form or properties.
aqua: Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry,in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.Aqua ammoniæ, the aqueous solution of ammonia; liquid ammonia; oftencalled aqua ammonia.-- Aqua marine, or Aqua marina. Same as Aquamarine.-- Aqua regia. Etym
aqua fortis: Nitric acid. [Archaic]
aquamarine: A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. SeeBeryl.
aquapuncture: The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief ofpain.
aquarelle: A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also,the mode of painting in such colors.
aquarellist: A painter in thin transparent water colors.
aquarian: One of a sect of Christian in the primitive church who usedwater instead of wine in the Lord's Supper.
aquarium: An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glasssides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants arekept.
aquatic: Pertaining to water growing in water; living in, swimming in,or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.
aquatical: Aquatic. [R.]
aquatile: Inhabiting the water. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
aqueduct: A canal or passage; as, the aqueduct of Sylvius, a channelconnecting the third and fourth ventricles of the brain.
aqueity: Wateriness. [Obs.]
aqueousness: Wateriness.
aquiferous: Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferousvessels; the aquiferous system.
aquiform: Having the form of water.
aquila: A genus of eagles.
aquilated: Adorned with eagles' heads.
aquilon: The north wind. [Obs.] Shak.
aquiparous: Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands. Dunglison.
aquitanian: Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.
aquose: Watery; aqueous. [R.] Bailey.
aquosity: The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness. Huxley.Very little water or aquosity is found in their belly. Holland.
ar: Ere; before. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ara: The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of theScorpion.
arab: One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria,Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streetsof a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl. Tylor.The ragged outcasts and street Arabs who are shivering in dampdoorways. Lond. Sat. Rev.
araba: A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and oftencovered. [Oriental]
arabesque: A style of ornamentation either painted, inlaid, or carved inlow relief. It consists of a pattern in which plants, fruits,foliage, etc., as well as figures of men and animals, real orimaginary, are fantastically interlaced or put together.
arabesqued: Ornamented in the style of arabesques.
arabian: Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants. Arabian bird,the phenix. Shak.
arabic: Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians. Arabic numerals orfigures, the nine digits, 1, 2, 3, etc., and the cipher 0.-- Gum arabic. See under Gum.
arabical: Relating to Arabia; Arabic.-- A*rab"ic*al*ly, adv.
arabin: A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gumarabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.
arabinose: A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum byboiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.
arabism: An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language. Stuart.
arabist: One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also,formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.
arable: Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to landwhich has been plowed or tilled.
araby: The country of Arabia. [Archaic & Poetic]
aracanese: Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah.-- n. sing. & pl.
aracari: A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied tothe toucans. There are several species.
arace: To tear up by the roots; to draw away. [Obs.] Wyatt.
araceous: Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arumis the type.
arachnid: An arachnidan. Huxley.
arachnida: One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.
arachnidan: One of the Arachnida.
arachnidium: The glandular organ in which the material for the web ofspiders is secreted.
arachnitis: Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.
arachnoid: Pertaining to a thin membrane of the brain and spinal cord,between the dura mater and pia mater.
arachnoidal: Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.
arachnoidea: Same as Arachnida.
arachnological: Of or pertaining to arachnology.
arachnologist: One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.
arachnology: The department of zoölogy which treats of spiders and otherArachnida.
araeometer: See Areometer.
araeostyle: See Intercolumniation.
araeosystyle: See Intercolumniation.
aragonese: Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
aragonite: A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate oflime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of itsphysical characters.
araguato: A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus).See Howler, n., 2.
araise: To raise. [Obs.] Shak.
arak: Same as Arrack.
aramaic: Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language,or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramæan; -- specificallyapplied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages,including Syriac and Chaldee.-- n.
aramaism: An idiom of the Aramaic.
araneidan: Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders.-- n.
araneiform: Having the form of a spider. Kirby.
araneina: The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.
araneose: Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.
araneous: Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, thearaneous membrane of the eye. See Arachnoid. Derham.
arango: A bead of rough carnelian. Arangoes were formerly imported fromBombay for use in the African slave trade. McCulloch.
arapaima: A large fresh-water food fish of South America.
arara: The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossusaterrimus).
aration: Plowing; tillage. [R.]Lands are said to be in a state of aration when they are undertillage. Brande.
aratory: Contributing to tillage.
araucaria: A genus of tall conifers of the pine family. The species areconfined mostly to South America and Australia. The wood cells differfrom those of other in having the dots in their lateral surfaces intwo or three rows, and the dots of contiguous rows alternating. Theseeds are edible.
araucarian: Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria. The earliestconifers in geological history were mostly Araucarian. Dana.
arbiter: To act as arbiter between. [Obs.]
arbitrable: Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.[Archaic] Bp. Hall.
arbitrage: A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange);also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the sametime in different markets.
arbitral: Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration. [R.]
arbitrarily: In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.
arbitrariness: The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny. Bp.Hall.
arbitrarious: Arbitrary; despotic. [Obs.] -- Ar`bi*tra"*ri*ous*ly, adv.[Obs.]
arbitration: The hearing and determination of a cause between parties incontroversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.
arbitratrix: A female who arbitrates or judges.
arbitress: A female arbiter; an arbitratrix. Milton.
arblast: A crossbow. See Arbalest.
arbor: A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines,branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower. Sir P.Sidney.
arbor dianae: A precipitation of silver, in a beautiful arborescent form.
arbor vine: A species of bindweed.
arbor vitae: An evergreen tree of the cypress tribe, genus Thuja. TheAmerican species is the T. occidentalis.
arborary: Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.
arborator: One who plants or who prunes trees. [Obs.] Evelyn.
arbored: Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees. "An arboreal walk."Pollok.
arborescence: The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree inminerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form;as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.
arborescent: Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; havingcrystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree."Arborescent hollyhocks." Evelyn.
arboret: A small tree or shrub. [Obs.] Spenser.Among thick-woven arborets, and flowers Imbordered on each bank.Milton.
arboretum: A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs iscultivated for scientific or educational purposes.
arborical: Relating to trees. [Obs.]
arboricole: Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.
arboricultural: Pertaining to arboriculture. Loudon.
arboriculture: The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or forornamental purposes.
arboriculturist: One who cultivates trees.
arboriform: Treelike in shape.
arborist: One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in theknowledge of trees. Howell.
arborization: The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals orfossils; a dendrite.
arborized: Having a treelike appearance. "An arborized or moss agate."Wright.
arborous: Formed by trees. [Obs.]From under shady, arborous roof. Milton.
arbuscle: A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; atreelike shrub. Bradley.
arbuscular: Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike. Da Costa.
arbustive: Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.Bartram.
arc: A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of anellipse.
arc light: The light of an arc lamp.
arcaded: Furnished with an arcade.
arcadia: Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as,Arcadian simplicity or scenery.
arcane: Hidden; secret. [Obs.] "The arcane part of divine wisdom."Berkeley.
arcanum: A secret remedy; an elixir. Dunglison.
arcboutant: A flying buttress. Gwilt.
arch: Any part of a curved line.
arch brick: A wedge-shaped brick used in the building of an arch.
arch stone: A wedge-shaped stone used in an arch; a voussoir.
arch-: A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.
archaean: Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geologicalhistory.
archaeography: A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.
archaeolithic: Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to aprehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.
archaeologian: An archæologist.
archaeologist: One versed in archæology; an antiquary. Wright.
archaeology: The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoricantiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of anearly epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, writtenmanuscripts, etc.
archaeopteryx: A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having along tapering tail of many vertebræ with feathers along each side,and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.
archaeostomatous: Applied to a gastrula when the blastorope does not entirely up.
archaeozoic: Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.
archaic: Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated;obsolescent.
archaical: Archaic. [R.] -- Ar*cha"ic*al*ly, adv.
archaistic: Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to anarchaism.
archaize: To make appear archaic or antique. Mahaffy.
archangel: A term applied to several different species of plants (Angelicaarchangelica, Lamium album, etc.).
archangelic: Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, orresembling, an archangel. Milton.
archbishop: A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (oftencalled a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of thesuffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopalauthority in his own diocese.
archbishopric: The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see orprovince over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.
archbutler: A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.
archchamberlain: A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire,whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.
archchancellor: A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, whopresided over the secretaries of the court.
archchemic: Of supreme chemical powers. [R.] "The archchemic sun." Milton.
archdeacon: In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below abishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though withindependent authority. Blackstone.
archdeaconry: The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. SeeBenefice.Every diocese is divided into archdeaconries. Blackstone.
archdeaconship: The office of an archdeacon.
archdiocese: The diocese of an archbishop.
archducal: Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.
archduchess: The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperialfamily of Austria. See Archduke.
archduchy: The territory of an archduke or archduchess. Ash.
archduke: A prince of the imperial family of Austria.
archdukedom: An archduchy.
archebiosis: To origination of living matter from non-living. SeeAbiogenesis. Bastian.
arched: Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an archeddoor.
archegonial: Relating to the archegonium.
archegonium: The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamicplants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.
archegony: Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.
archelogy: The science of, or a treatise on, first principles. Fleming.
archencephala: The division that includes man alone. R. Owen.
archenemy: A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary ofmankind. Milton.
archenteric: Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.
archenteron: The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of agastrula or other embryo. See Illust. under Invagination.
archer: A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.
archer fish: A small fish (Toxotes jaculator), of the East Indies; -- socalled from its ejecting drops of water from its mouth at its prey.The name is also applied to Chætodon rostratus.
archeress: A female archer. Markham.
archership: The art or skill of an archer.
arches: pl. of Arch, n. Court of arches, or Arches Court (Eng. Law),the court of appeal of the Archbishop of Canterbury, whereof thejudge, who sits as deputy to the archbishop, is called the Dean ofthe Arches, because he anciently held his court in the church of St.Mary-le-Bow (de arcubus). It is now held in Westminster. Mozley & W.
archetypal: Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real orideal) or pattern; original. "One archetypal mind." Gudworth.
archetypally: With reference to the archetype; originally. "Partsarchetypally distinct." Dana.
archetype: The standard weight or coin by which others are adjusted.
archetypical: Relating to an archetype; archetypal.
archeus: The vital principle or force which (according to theParacelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of livingbeings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.[Obs.] Johnson.
archi-: A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal.In Biol. and Anat. it usually means primitive, original, ancestral;as, archipterygium, the primitive fin or wing.
archiannelida: A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segmentsor distinct ventral nerve ganglions.
archiater: Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe,to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physicianof some cities. P. Cyc.
archibald wheel: A metal-hubbed wheel of great strength and elasticity, esp.adapted for artillery carriages and motor cars.
archiblastula: A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c
archical: Chief; primary; primordial. [Obs.] Cudworth.
archidiaconal: Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.This offense is liable to be censured in an archidiaconal visitation.Johnson.
archiepiscopal: Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is anarchiepiscopal see.
archiepiscopality: The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.Fuller.
archiepiscopate: The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.
archierey: The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans,archbishops, and bishops. Pinkerton.
archilochian: Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as,Archilochian meter.
archimedean: Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher;constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedeandrill, propeller, etc. Archimedean screw, or Archimedes' screw, aninstrument, said to have been invented by Archimedes, for raisingwater, formed by winding a flexible tube round a cylinder in the formof a screw. When the screw is placed in an inclined position, and thelower end immersed in water, by causing the screw to revolve, thewater is raised to the upper end. Francis.
archimedes: An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of thesubcarboniferous rocks. Its form is that of a screw.
arching: Hogging; -- opposed to sagging.
archipelagic: Of or pertaining to an archipelago.
archipterygium: The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.
architective: Used in building; proper for building. Derham.
architectonics: The science of architecture.
architector: An architect. [Obs.] North.
architectress: A female architect.
architectural: Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rulesof architecture.-- Ar`chi*tec"tur*al*ly, adv.
architeuthis: A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, foundesp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.
architraved: Furnished with an architrave. Cowper.
archival: Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records. Tooke.
archive: The place in which public records or historic documents arekept.Our words . . . . become records in God's court, and are laid up inhis archives as witnesses. Gov. of Tongue.
archivist: A keeper of archives or records. [R.]
archivolt: A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, havingthe bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings witha unison.
archly: In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness;slyly; waggishly.Archly the maiden smiled. Longfellow.
archmarshal: The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that tothe Elector of Saxony.
archness: The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free frommalice; waggishness. Goldsmith.
archon: One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, bypreëminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates.-- Ar*chon"tic, a.
archonship: The office of an archon. Mitford.
archontate: An archon's term of office. Gibbon.
archonts: The group including man alone.
archoplasm: The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitoticcell division, and of which they consist.
archprelate: An archbishop or other chief prelate.
archpresbyter: Same as Archpriest.
archpresbytery: The absolute dominion of presbytery. Milton.
archpriest: A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.
archprimate: The chief primate. Milton.
archtraitor: A chief or transcendent traitor. I. Watts.
archtreasurer: A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of theGerman empire.
archway: A way or passage under an arch.
archwife: A big, masculine wife. [Obs.] Chaucer.
archwise: Arch-shaped.
archy: Arched; as, archy brows.
arciform: Having the form of an arch; curved.
arcograph: An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of acentral point; a cyclograph.
arctation: Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as inconstipation from inflammation.
arctic: Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellationcalled the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle,region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.
arctisca: A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.
arctogeal: Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.
arctoidea: A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels,etc.
arcturus: A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellationBoötes.
arcual: Of or pertaining to an arc. Arcual measure of an angle (Math.),that in which the unit angle has its measuring arc equal to theradius of the circle.
arcuately: In the form of a bow.
arcuation: A mode of propagating trees by bending branches to the ground,and covering the small shoots with earth; layering. Chambers.
arcubalist: A crossbow. Fosbroke.
arcubalister: A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist. Camden.
arcubus: See Arquebus. [Obs.]
ardassine: A very fine sort of Persian silk.
ardently: In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately;passionately.
ardentness: Ardency. [R.]
ardois system: A widely used system of electric night signals in which aseries of double electric lamps (white and red) is arrangedvertically on a mast, and operated from a keyboard below.
ardor: Bright and effulgent spirits; seraphim. [Thus used by Milton.]
arduously: In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.
arduousness: The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.
ardurous: Burning; ardent. [R.]Lo! further on, Where flames the arduous Spirit of Isidore. Cary.
are: The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be;but etymologically a different word from be, or was. Am, art, are,and is, all come from the root as.
area: The superficial contents of any figure; the surface includedwithin any given lines; superficial extent; as, the area of a squareor a triangle.
areal: Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areasor spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).
arear: To raise; to set up; to stir up. [Obs.]
areca: A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut,or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the PiperBetle and lime.
areek: In a reeking condition. Swift.
arefaction: The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.The arefaction of the earth. Sir M. Hale.
arefy: To dry, or make dry. Bacon.
arena: The area in the central part of an amphitheater, in which thegladiators fought and other shows were exhibited; -- so calledbecause it was covered with sand.
arenaceous: Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand;easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.
arenarious: Sandy; as, arenarious soil.
arenation: A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body. Dunglison.
arendator: In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents orrevenues.
arenicolite: An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks. Dana.
arenilitic: Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.Kirwan.
arenose: Sandy; full of sand. Johnson.
arenulous: Full of fine sand; like sand. [Obs.]
areola: The colored ring around the nipple, or around a vesicle orpustule.
areolar: Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices orareolæ. reolar tissue (Anat.), a form of fibrous connective tissue inwhich the fibers are loosely arranged with numerous spaces, orareolæ, between them.
areole: Same as Areola.
areolet: A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on thewings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.
areometer: An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; aform hydrometer.
areometry: The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.
areopagist: See Areopagite.
areopagite: A member of the Areopagus. Acts xvii. 34.
areopagitic: Pertaining to the Areopagus. Mitford.
areopagus: The highest judicial court at Athens. Its sessions were held onMars' Hill. Hence, any high court or tribunal
areostyle: See Intercolumniation, and Aræostyle.
areosystyle: See Intercolumniation, and Aræosystyle.
arere: See Arear. [Obs.] Ellis.
arest: A support for the spear when couched for the attack. [Obs.]Chaucer.
aret: To reckon; to ascribe; to impute. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aretaics: The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtueand happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.J. Grote.
arete: An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiaryridge between two mountain gorges.
aretology: That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, itsnature, and the means of attaining to it.
arew: In a row. [Obs.] "All her teeth arew." Spenser.
argal: Crude tartar. See Argol.
argala: The adjutant bird.
argand lamp: A lamp with a circular hollow wick and glass chimney whichallow a current of air both inside and outside of the flame. Argandburner, a burner for an Argand lamp, or a gas burner in which theprinciple of that lamp is applied.
argas: A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals. Thefamous Persian Argas, also called Miana bug, is A. Persicus; that ofCentral America, called talaje by the natives, is A. Talaje.
argean: Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.
argent: Whiteness; anything that is white.The polished argent of her breast. Tennyson.
argental: Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combinedwith, silver.
argentalium: A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density ofabout 2.9.
argentan: An alloy of nicked with copper and zinc; German silver.
argentate: Silvery white. Gray.
argentation: A coating or overlaying with silver. [R.] Johnson.
argentic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said ofcertain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowestproportion; as, argentic chloride.
argentiferous: Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore orveins.
argentine: A siliceous variety of calcite, or carbonate of lime, having asilvery-white, pearly luster, and a waving or curved lamellarstructure.
argentite: Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silverglance. It has a metallic luster, a lead-gray color, and is sectilelike lead.
argentous: Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certainsilver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than inargentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.
argentry: Silver plate or vessels. [Obs.]Bowls of frosted argentry. Howell.
argil: Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. SeeClay.
argillaceous: Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil orclay; clayey. Argillaceous sandstone (Geol.), a sandstone containingmuch clay.-- Argillaceous iron ore, the clay ironstone.-- Argillaceous schist or state. See Argillite.
argilliferous: Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.Kirwan.
argillite: Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate. Its colors is bluishor blackish gray, sometimes greenish gray, brownish red, etc.-- Ar`gil*lit"ic, a.
argillo-areenaceous: Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.
argillo-calcareous: Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.
argillo-ferruginous: Containing clay and iron.
argillous: Argillaceous; clayey. Sir T. Browne.
argive: Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece.-- n.
argo: The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-fourcompanions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.
argoan: Pertaining to the ship Argo.
argoile: Potter's clay. [Obs.] Chaucer.
argol: Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar isprepared. It exists in the juice of grapes, and is deposited fromwines on the sides of the casks. Ure.
argolic: Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.
argon: A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphereand remarkable for its chemical inertness. Rayleigh and Ramsay.
argonaut: A cephalopod of the genus Argonauta.
argonauta: A genus of Cephalopoda. The shell is called paper nautilus orpaper sailor.
argonautic: Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.
argosy: A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.Where your argosies with portly sail . . . Do overpeer the pettytraffickers. Shak.
argot: A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves,tramps, and vagabonds; flash.
arguable: Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.
arguer: One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.
argulus: A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fishlouse. See Branchiura.
argument: The quantity on which another quantity in a table depends; as,the altitude is the argument of the refraction.
argumentable: Admitting of argument. [R.] Chalmers.
argumental: Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.
argumentize: To argue or discuss. [Obs.] Wood.
argus: A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes,who has placed by Juno to guard Io. His eyes were transplanted to thepeacock's tail.
argus shell: A species of shell (Cypræa argus), beautifully variegated withspots resembling those in a peacock's tail.
argus-eyed: Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.
argutation: Caviling; subtle disputation. [Obs.]
argutely: In a subtle; shrewdly.
arguteness: Acuteness. Dryden.
aria: An air or song; a melody; a tune.
arian: See Aryan.
arianism: The doctrines of the Arians.
arianize: To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become anArian.
aricine: An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.
arid: Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren. "An aridwaste." Thomson.
aridness: Aridity; dryness.
aries: A battering-ram.
arietate: To butt, as a ram. [Obs.]
arietation: A short aria, or air. "A military ariette." Sir W. Scott.
aright: Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake orcrime; as, to worship God aright.
arillode: A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead offrom the funicle or chalaza of the ovule. The mace of the nutmeg isan arillode.
ariman: See Ahriman.
ariolation: A soothsaying; a foretelling. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ariose: Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.Mendelssohn wants the ariose beauty of Handel; vocal melody is nothis forte; the interest of his airs harmonic. Foreign Quart. Rev.
arioso: In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.
arise: Rising. [Obs.] Drayton.
arist: of Arise, for ariseth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
arista: An awn. Gray.
aristarch: A severe critic. Knowles.
aristarchian: Severely critical.
aristarchy: Severely criticism.
aristate: Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat;awned. Gray.
aristology: The science of dining. Quart. Rev.
aristophanic: Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.
aristotelian: Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher(384-322 b. c.).-- n.
aristotelianism: The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripateticphilosophy.
aristotelic: Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy. "Aristotelicusage." Sir W. Hamilton.
aristotype: Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silverchloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts ineither collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made.
aristulate: Pertaining a short beard or awn. Gray.
arithmancy: Divination by means of numbers.
arithmetical: Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules ormethod of arithmetic. Arithmetical complement of a logarithm. SeeLogarithm.-- Arithmetical mean. See Mean.-- Arithmetical progression. See Progression.-- Arithmetical proportion. See Proportion.
arithmetically: Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.
arithmetician: One skilled in arithmetic.
arithmomancy: Arithmancy.
arithmometer: A calculating machine.
ark: The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, whichsupported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied themost sacred place in the sanctuary. In it Moses placed the two tablesof stone containing the ten commandments. Called also the Ark of theCovenant.
ark shell: A marine bivalve shell belonging to the genus Arca and itsallies.
arkite: Belonging to the ark. [R.] Faber.
arkose: A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite orgneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a.
arles: An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.[Scot.] Arles penny, earnest money given to servants. Kersey.
arm: To provide one's self with arms, weapons, or means of attack orresistance; to take arms. " 'Tis time to arm." Shak.
arm-gret: Great as a man's arm. [Obs.]A wreath of gold, arm-gret. Chaucer.
armada: A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanishfleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.
armado: Armada. [Obs.]
armament: All the cannon and small arms collectively, with theirequipments, belonging to a ship or a fortification.
armamentary: An armory; a magazine or arsenal. [R.]
armature: A piece of soft iron used to connect the two poles of a magnet,or electro-magnet, in order to complete the circuit, or to receiveand apply the magnetic force. In the ordinary horseshoe magnet, itserves to prevent the dissipation of the magnetic force.
armchair: A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms. Tennyson.
armed: Having horns, beak, talons, etc; -- said of beasts and birds ofprey. Armed at all points (Blazoning), completely incased in armor,sometimes described as armed cap-à-pie. Cussans.-- Armed en flute. (Naut.) See under Flute.-- Armed magnet, a magnet provided with an armature.-- Armed neutrality. See under Neutrality.
armenian: Of or pertaining to Armenia. Armenian bole, a soft clayey earthof a bright red color found in Armenia, Tuscany, etc.-- Armenian stone. (a) The commercial name of lapis lazuli. (b)Emery.
armet: A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.
armful: As much as the arm can hold.
armgaunt: With gaunt or slender legs. "An armgaunt steed." Shak.
armiferous: Bearing arms or weapons. [R.]
armiger: Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who borehis shield and rendered other services. In later use, one next indegree to a knight, and entitled to armorial bearings. The term isnow superseded by esquire. Jacob.
armigerous: Bearing arms. [R.]They belonged to the armigerous part of the population, and wereentitled to write themselves Esquire. De Quincey.
armilla: A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.
armillary: Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting ofrings or circles. Armillary sphere, an ancient astronomical machinecomposed of an assemblage of rings, all circles of the same sphere,designed to represent the positions of the important circles of thecelestial sphere. Nichol.
arming: A piece of tallow placed in a cavity at the lower end of asounding lead, to bring up the sand, shells, etc., of the sea bottom.Totten.
arminian: Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to theirdoctrines. See note under Arminian, n.
arminianism: The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.
armipotence: Power in arms. [R.] Johnson.
armipotent: Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.The temple stood of Mars armipotent. Dryden.
armistice: A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; atemporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.
armoniac: Ammoniac. [Obs.]
armor-bearer: One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger. Judg.ix. 54.
armor-plated: Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war;steel-clad.This day will be launched . . . the first armor-plated steam frigatein the possession of Great Britain. Times (Dec. 29, 1860).
armored: Clad with armor.
armored cruiser: A man-of-war carrying a large coal supply, and more or lessprotected from the enemy's shot by iron or steel armor. There is nodistinct and accepted classification distinguishing armored andprotected cruisers from each other, except that the first have moreor heavier armor than the second.
armorial: Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of afamily.Figures with armorial signs of race and birth. Wordsworth.Armorial bearings. See Arms, 4.
armorican: A native of Armorica.
armorist: One skilled in coat armor or heraldry. Cussans.
armory: A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.Simmonds.
armpit: The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; theaxilla.
armrack: A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.
arms: Anything which a man takes in his hand in anger, to strike orassault another with; an aggressive weapon. Cowell. Blackstone.
army organization: The system by which a country raises, classifies, arranges, andequips its armed land forces. The usual divisions are
army worm: The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger thanthe domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.
arnatto: See Annotto.
arnica: A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnicamontana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as anarcotic and stimulant.
arnicin: An active principle of Arnica montana. It is a bitter resin.
arnicine: An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.
arnotto: Same as Annotto.
aroint: Stand off, or begone. [Obs.]Aroint thee, witch, the rump-fed ronyon cries. Shak.
arolla: The stone pine (Pinus Cembra).
aroma: Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong-scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam. Aromatic compound (Chem.),one of a large class of organic substances, as the oils of bitteralmonds, wintergreen, and turpentine, the balsams, camphors, etc.,many of which have an aromatic odor. They include many of the mostimportant of the carbon compounds and may all be derived from thebenzene group, C6H6. The term is extended also to many of theirderivatives.-- Aromatic vinegar. See under Vinegar.
aromatic: A plant, drug, or medicine, characterized by a fragrant smell,and usually by a warm, pungent taste, as ginger, cinnamon spices.
aromatization: The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.
aromatize: To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicyscent or taste to; to perfume. Bacon.
aromatizer: One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic. Evelyn.
aromatous: Aromatic. [Obs.] Caxton.
aroph: A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate variousmedical remedies. [Obs.]
arose: The past or preterit tense of Arise.
arousal: The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.Whatever has associated itself with the arousal and activity of ourbetter nature. Hare.
arouse: To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put inmotion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one fromsleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.Grasping his spear, forth issued to arouse His brother, mightysovereign on the host. Cowper.No suspicion was aroused. Merivale.
arow: In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order. Shak.And twenty, rank in rank, they rode arow. Dryden.
aroynt: See Aroint.
arpeggio: The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, asin playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.
arpentator: The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.[R.]
arpine: An arpent. [Obs.] Webster (1623).
arquated: Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved. [R.]
arquebusier: A soldier armed with an arquebus.Soldiers armed with guns, of whatsoever sort or denomination, appearto have been called arquebusiers. E. Lodge.
arquifoux: Same as Alquifou.
arrach: See Orach.
arrack: A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardentspirits. Arrack is often distilled from a fermented mixture of rice,molasses, and palm wine of the cocoanut tree or the date palm, etc.
arragonite: See Aragonite.
arraign: To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer tothe matter charged in an indictment or complaint. Blackstone.
arraigner: One who arraigns. Coleridge.
arraignment: The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the actof calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to anindictment or complaint.
arranger: One who arranges. Burke.
arrant: Notoriously or preëminently bad; thorough or downright, in abad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.I discover an arrant laziness in my soul. Fuller.
arrantly: Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently;shamefully. L'Estrange.
arras: Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen orhangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.Stateliest couches, with rich arras spread. Cowper.Behind the arras I'll convey myself. Shak.
arrasene: A material of wool or silk used for working the figures inembroidery.
arrastre: A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containingfree gold.
arraught: Obtained; seized. Spenser.
array: To set in order, as a jury, for the trial of a cause; that is,to call them man by man. Blackstone. To array a panel, to set forthin order the men that are impaneled. Cowell. Tomlins.
arrayer: One who arrays. In some early English statutes, applied to anofficer who had care of the soldiers' armor, and who saw them dulyaccoutered.
arrear: To or in the rear; behind; backwards. [Obs.] Spenser.
arrearage: That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part;arrears.The old arrearages . . . being defrayed. Howell.
arrect: To impute. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
arrectary: An upright beam. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
arrenotokous: Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps andbees.
arrentation: A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in aforest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.
arreption: The act of taking away. [Obs.] "This arreption was sudden." Bp.Hall.
arreptitious: Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad;crack-brained. [Obs.]Odd, arreptitious, frantic extravagances. Howell.
arrest: To take, seize, or apprehend by authority of law; as, to arrestone for debt, or for a crime.
arrestation: Arrest. [R.]The arrestation of the English resident in France was decreed by theNational Convention. H. M. Williams.
arrestee: The person in whose hands is the property attached byarrestment.
arrester: The person at whose suit an arrestment is made. [Also writtenarrestor.]
arresting: Striking; attracting attention; impressive.This most solemn and arresting occurrence. J. H. Newman.
arrestive: Tending to arrest. McCosh.
arrestment: The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., aprocess by which money or movables in the possession of a third partyare attached.
arret: Same as Aret. [Obs.] Spenser.
arrha: Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; apledge or earnest.
arrhaphostic: Seamless. [R.]
arrhytmy: Want of rhythm. [R.]
arride: To please; to gratify. [Archaic] B. Jonson.Above all thy rarities, old Oxenford, what do most arride and solaceme are thy repositories of moldering learning. Lamb.
arriere: "That which is behind"; the rear; -- chiefly used as anadjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate. Arriere fee,Arriere fief, a fee or fief dependent on a superior fee, or a feeheld of a feudatory.-- Arriere vassal, the vassal of a vassal.
arriere-ban: A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only theirimmediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to takethe field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to becalled to arms, as in ancient France.
arris: The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meetingeach other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to theedges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate theflutings in a Doric column. P. Cyc. Arris fillet, a triangular pieceof wood used to raise the slates of a roof against a chimney or wall,to throw off the rain. Gwilt.-- Arris gutter, a gutter of a V form fixed to the eaves of abuilding. Gwilt.
arrish: The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish. [Eng.][Written also arish, ersh, etc.]The moment we entered the stubble or arrish. Blackw. Mag.
arriswise: Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.
arrivance: Arrival. [Obs.] Shak.
arrive: Arrival. [Obs.] Chaucer.How should I joy of thy arrive to hear! Drayton.
arriver: One who arrives.
arrogance: The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in anoverbearing manner; that species of pride which consists inexorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power, or whichexalts the worth or importance of the person to an undue degree;proud contempt of others; lordliness; haughtiness; self-assumption;presumption.I hate not you for her proud arrogance. Shak.
arrogancy: Arrogance. Shak.
arrogantly: In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.
arrogantness: Arrogance. [R.]
arrogate: To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, orpresumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baselesspretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion overkings.He arrogated to himself the right of deciding dogmatically what wasorthodox doctrine. Macaulay.
arrogation: Adoption of a person of full age.
arrogative: Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance. [R.]Dr. H. More.
arrondissement: A subdivision of a department. [France]
arrose: To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten. [Obs.]The blissful dew of heaven does arrose you. Two N. Kins.
arrosion: A gnawing. [Obs.] Bailey.
arrow: A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usuallyfeathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow. Broad arrow. (a) Anarrow with a broad head. (b) A mark placed upon British ordnance andgovernment stores, which bears a rude resemblance to a broadarrowhead.
arrow grass: An herbaceous grasslike plant (Triglochin palustre, and otherspecies) with pods opening so as to suggest barbed arrowheads.
arrowhead: An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia,-- named from the shape of the leaves.
arrowheaded: Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform. Arrowheadedcharacters, characters the elements of which consist of strokesresembling arrowheads, nailheads, or wedges; -- hence called alsonail-headed, wedge-formed, cuneiform, or cuneatic characters; theoldest written characters used in the country about the Tigris andEuphrates, and subsequently in Persia, and abounding among the ruinsof Persepolis, Nineveh, and Babylon. See Cuneiform.
arrowroot: A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea,now cultivated in many hot countries. It said that the Indians usedthe roots to neutralize the venom in wounds made by poisoned arrows.
arrowwood: A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets;-- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.
arrowworm: A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at thesurface of the sea. See Sagitta.
arschin: See Arshine.
arse: The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; thefundament; the bottom.
arsenal: A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufactureand storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land ornaval service.
arsenate: A salt of arsenic acid.
arseniate: See Arsenate. [R.]
arsenic: One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal inits physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking withthe nonmetals. It is of a steel-gray color and brilliant luster,though usually dull from tarnish. It is very brittle, and sublimes at356º Fahrenheit. It is sometimes found native, but usually combinedwith silver, cobalt, nickel, iron, antimony, or sulphur. Orpiment andrealgar are two of its sulphur compounds, the first of which is thetrue arsenticum of the ancients. The element and its compounds areactive poisons. Specific gravity from 5.7 to 5.9. Atomic weight.Symbol As.
arsenical: Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenicalvapor; arsenical wall papers. Arsenical silver, an ore of silvercontaining arsenic.
arsenicate: To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.
arsenicism: A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.
arsenide: A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element orradical; -- formerly called arseniuret.
arseniferous: Containing or producing arsenic.
arsenious: Pertaining to, or derived from, arsenic, when having anequivalence next lower than the highest; as, arsenious acid.
arsenite: A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.
arseniuret: See Arsenide.
arseniureted: Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances orradicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen. [Also spelt arseniuretted.]
arsenopyrite: A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containingarsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites andmispickel.
arsesmart: Smartweed; water pepper. Dr. Prior.
arshine: A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.
arsine: A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless andexceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniuretedhydrogen.
arsis: The elevation of the hand, or that part of the bar at which itis raised, in beating time; the weak or unaccented part of the bar; -- opposed to thesis. Moore.
arsmetrike: Arithmetic. [Obs.] Chaucer.
arson: The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse ofanother man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious andvoluntary firing of a building or ship. Wharton.
art: The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, ofthe substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the pluralare, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending ofthe second person sing. pret. Cf. Be. Now used only in solemn orpoetical style.
art union: An association for promoting art (esp. the arts of design), andgiving encouragement to artists.
artemia: A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines;the brine shrimp. See Brine shrimp.
artemisia: A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort,southernwood, and wormwood. Of these A. absinthium, or commonwormwood, is well known, and A. tridentata is the sage brush of theRocky Mountain region.
arteriac: Of or pertaining to the windpipe.
arterialization: The process of converting venous blood into arterial bloodduring its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed andcarbonic acid evolved; -- called also aëration and hematosis.
arterialize: To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood byexposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.
arteriography: A systematic description of the arteries.
arteriole: A small artery.
arteriology: That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.
arteriosclerosis: Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries,esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age. --Ar*te`ri*o*scle*rot"ic (#), a.
arteriotomy: The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.
arteritis: Inflammation of an artery or arteries. Dunglison.
artery: One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous orarterial blood from the heart. They have tricker and more muscularwalls than veins, and are connected with them by capillaries.
artesian: Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), inFrance. Artesian wells, wells made by boring into the earth till theinstrument reaches water, which, from internal pressure, flowsspontaneously like a fountain. They are usually of small diameter andoften of great depth.
artfully: In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully;dexterously; craftily.
artfulness: The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.
arthen: Same as Earthen. [Obs.] "An arthen pot." Holland.
arthritis: Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.
arthrochondritis: Chondritis of a joint.
arthroderm: The external covering of an Arthropod.
arthrodesis: Surgical fixation of joints.
arthrodia: A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articularsurfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect balland socket.
arthrodynia: An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, notdependent upon structural disease.
arthrodynic: Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.
arthrogastra: A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated,including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.
arthrography: The description of joints.
arthrology: That part of anatomy which treats of joints.
arthromere: One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.Packard.
arthropathy: Any disease of the joints.
arthropleura: The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.
arthropod: One of the Arthropoda.
arthropoda: A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that havejointed legs. It includes Insects, Arachnida, Pychnogonida, andCrustacea.-- Ar*throp"o*dal, a.
arthropomata: One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.
arthrosis: Articulation.
arthrospore: A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, butnow known to occur even in endosporous bacteria. -- Ar`thro*spor"ic(#), Ar*thros"po*rous (#), a.
arthrostraca: One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because thethorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda. It includes theAmphipoda and Isopoda.
arthrotome: A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints.
arthrozoic: Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.
arthurian: Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.  J. R. Symonds.
artiad: Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicalsthe valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.
article: One of the three words, a, an, the, used before nouns to limitor define their application. A (or an) is called the indefinitearticle, the the definite article.
articled: Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.
articular: Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; anarticular process.
articularly: In an articular or an articulate manner.
articulate: An animal of the subkingdom Articulata.
articulateness: Quality of being articulate.
articulation: A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.
articulative: Of or pertaining to articulation. Bush.
articulator: One who, or that which, articulates; as
articulus: A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of anarthropod appendage.
artifact: A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simplerproducts of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.
artificer: A military mechanic, as a blacksmith, carpenter, etc.; also,one who prepares the shells, fuses, grenades, etc., in a militarylaboratory.
artificiality: The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which isartificial.
artificialize: To render artificial.
artificialness: The quality of being artificial.
artificious: Artificial. [Obs.] Johnson.
artilize: To make resemble. [Obs.]If I was a philosopher, says Montaigne, I would naturalize artinstead of artilizing nature. Bolingbroke.
artillerist: A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; anartilleryman.
artillery wheel: A kind of heavily built dished wheel with a long axle box, usedon gun carriages, usually having 14 spokes and 7 felloes; hence, awheel of similar construction for use on automobiles, etc.
artilleryman: A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun infiring.
artiodactyla: One of the divisions of the ungulate animals. The functionaltoes of the hind foot are even in number, and the third digit of eachfoot (corresponding to the middle finger in man) is asymmetrical andpaired with the fourth digit, as in the hog, the sheep, and the ox; -- opposed to Perissodactyla.
artiodactyle: One of the Artiodactyla.
artiodactylous: Even-toed.
artiste: One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment,as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.
artlessly: In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile;unaffectedly. Pope.
artlessness: The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile;simplicity; sincerity.
artly: With art or skill. [Obs.]
artotype: A kind of autotype.
artotyrite: One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated theLord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the firstoblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of theirflocks. [Gen. iv. 3, 4.]
artow: A contraction of art thou. [Obs.] Chaucer.
artsman: A man skilled in an art or in arts. [Obs.] Bacon.
arum: A genus of plants found in central Europe and about theMediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe. Thecuckoopint of the English is an example.Our common arums the lords and ladies of village children. Lubbock.
arundelian: Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelianmarbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundelin 1624.
arundiferous: Producing reeds or canes.
arundinaceous: Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.
arundineous: Abounding with reeds; reedy.
aruspex: One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans,who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victimsoffered on the altars of the gods.
aruspice: A soothsayer of ancient Rome. Same as Aruspex. [Written alsoharuspice.]
aruspicy: Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slainsacrifice.
arval: A funeral feast. [North of Eng.] Grose.
arvicole: A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse. There are manyspecies.
aryan: Of or pertaining to the people called Aryans; Indo-European;Indo-Germanic; as, the Aryan stock, the Aryan languages.
aryanize: To make Aryan (a language, or in language). K. Johnston.
arytenoid: Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx,and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them. Thecartilages are attached to the cricoid cartilage and connected withthe vocal cords.
as: An ace. [Obs.] Chaucer. Ambes-as, double aces.
asa: An ancient name of a gum.
asaphus: A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation.See Illust. in Append.
asarabacca: An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europæum), the leaves androots of which are emetic and cathartic. It is principally used incephalic snuffs.
asarone: A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from theAsarum Europæum; -- called also camphor of asarum.
asbestic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable;asbestine.
asbestiform: Having the form or structure of asbestus.
asbestine: Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature;incombustible; asbestic.
asbestous: Asbestic.
asbolin: A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot.
ascariasis: A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea,caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal.
ascarid: A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascarislumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine and alliedspecies found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to thepinworm (Oxyuris), often troublesome to children and aged persons.
ascend: To go or move upward upon or along; to climb; to mount; to goup the top of; as, to ascend a hill, a ladder, a tree, a river, athrone.
ascendable: Capable of being ascended.
ascendant: The horoscope, or that degree of the ecliptic which rises abovethe horizon at the moment of one's birth; supposed to have acommanding influence on a person's life and fortune.
ascendency: Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.An undisputed ascendency. Macaulay.Custom has an ascendency over the understanding. Watts.
ascendible: Capable of being ascended; climbable.
ascending: Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite.-- As*cend"ing*ly, adv. Ascending latitude (Astron.), the increasinglatitude of a planet. Ferguson.-- Ascending line (Geneol.), the line of relationship tracedbackward or through one's ancestors. One's father and mother,grandfather and grandmother, etc., are in the line direct ascending.-- Ascending node having, that node of the moon or a planet whereinit passes the ecliptic to proceed northward. It is also called thenorthern node. Herschel.-- Ascending series. (Math.) (a) A series arranged according to theascending powers of a quantity. (b) A series in which each term isgreater than the preceding.-- Ascending signs, signs east of the meridian.
ascensional: Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive;tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon. Ascensionaldifference (Astron.), the difference between oblique and rightascension; -- used chiefly as expressing the difference between thetime of the rising or setting of a body and six o'clock, or six hoursfrom its meridian passage.
ascensive: Augmentative; intensive. Ellicott.
ascertainable: That may be ascertained.-- As`cer*tain"a*ble*ness, n.-- As`cer*tain"a*bly, adv.
ascertainer: One who ascertains.
ascertainment: The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding outby investigation; discovery.The positive ascertainment of its limits. Burke.
ascetic: Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.The stern ascetic rigor of the Temple discipline. Sir W. Scott.
asceticism: The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.
ascham: A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and otherimplements of archery.
asci: See Ascus.
ascian: One of the Ascii.
ascidian: One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of theTunicata. Also as an adj.
ascidiarium: The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in acompound ascidian.
ascidiform: Shaped like an ascidian.
ascidioidea: A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle. Thegroup includes, social, and compound species. The gill is a netlikestructure within the oral aperture. The integument is usuallyleathery in texture. See Illustration in Appendix.
ascidiozooid: One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. SeeAscidioidea.
ascidium: A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of aplant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderliketraps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).
ascigerous: Having asci. Loudon.
ascites: A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen;dropsy of the peritoneum. Dunglison.
ascititious: Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious;additional; assumed.Homer has been reckoned an ascititious name. Pope.
asclepiad: A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias,consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and aniambus.
asclepiadaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweedfamily.
asclepias: A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and someother species having medicinal properties. Asclepias butterfly(Zoöl.), a large, handsome, red and black butterfly (DanaisArchippus), found in both hemispheres. It feeds on plants of thegenus Asclepias.
ascocarp: In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shapedbody within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes themature fructification. The different forms are known in mycologyunder distinct names. Called also spore fruit.
ascococcus: A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions,occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyalinecapsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.
ascomycetes: A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphæ,and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs. Itcomprises many orders, among which are the yeasts, molds, mildews,truffles, morels, etc. -- As`co*my*ce"tous (#), a.
ascospore: One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi.[See Illust. of Ascus.]
ascribable: Capable of being ascribed; attributable.
ascript: See Adscript. [Obs.]
ascription: The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also,that which is ascribed.
ascus: A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed theseedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certainfungi.
asemia: Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs ofthought.
asepsis: State of being aseptic; the methods or processes ofasepticizing.
aseptic: Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent.-- n.
asexual: Having no distinct; without sexual action; as, asexualreproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.
asexualization: The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, asby vasectomy.
asexually: In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.
ash: A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnateleaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as theEuropean ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F. Americana).Prickly ash (Zanthoxylum Americanum) and Poison ash (Rhus venenata)are shrubs of different families, somewhat resembling the true ashesin their foliage.-- Mountain ash. See Roman tree, and under Mountain.
ash wednesday: The first day of Lent; -- so called from a custom in the RomanCatholic church of putting ashes, on that day, upon the foreheads ofpenitents.
ash-colored: Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.
ash-fire: A low fire used in chemical operations.
ashame: To shame. [R.] Barrow.
ashamed: Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or aconviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety. "Iam ashamed to beg." Wyclif.All that forsake thee shall be ashamed. Jer. xvii. 13.I began to be ashamed of sitting idle. Johnson.Enough to make us ashamed of our species. Macaulay.An ashamed person can hardly endure to meet the gaze of thosepresent. Darwin.
ashamedly: Bashfully. [R.]
ashantee: A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.
ashen: Of or pertaining to the ash tree. "Ashen poles." Dryden.
ashine: Shining; radiant.
ashore: On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to theshore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimesopposed to aboard or afloat.Here shall I die ashore. Shak.I must fetch his necessaries ashore. Shak.
ashtoreth: The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal wasthe principal male divinity. W. Smith.
ashweed: Goutweed.
asian: Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. "Asian princes." Jer.Taylor.-- n.
asiarch: One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia,who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.Milner.
asiatic: Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants.-- n.
asiaticism: Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.
aside: Something spoken aside; as, a remark made by a stageplayerwhich the other players are not supposed to hear.
asilus: A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including thebee killer and robber fly.
asinine: Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, asstupidity and obstinacy. "Asinine nature." B. Jonson. "Asininefeast." Milton.
asininity: The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined withobstinacy.
asiphonate: Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of manybivalve shells.-- n.
asitia: Want of appetite; loathing of food.
ask: A water newt. [Scot. & North of Eng.]
askance: To turn aside. [Poet.]O, how are they wrapped in with infamies That from their own misdeedsaskance their eyes! Shak.
asker: One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer. Shak.
askew: Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimesindicating scorn, or contempt, or entry. Spenser.
aslake: To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.[Archaic] Chaucer.
aslant: Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely.[The shaft] drove through his neck aslant. Dryden.
aslope: Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction;sloping. "Set them not upright, but aslope." Bacon.
aslug: Sluggishly. [Obs.] Fotherby.
asmear: Smeared over. Dickens.
asmonean: Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which theMaccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty. [Writtenalso Asmonæan.]
asoak: Soaking.
asomatous: Without a material body; incorporeal. Todd.
asonant: Not sounding or sounded. [R.] C. C. Felton.
asp: Same as Aspen. "Trembling poplar or asp." Martyn.
asparagine: A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O,found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus. It isbelieved to aid in the disposition of nitrogenous matter throughoutthe plant; -- called also altheine.
asparaginous: Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; havingshoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.
asparagus: A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural orderLiliaceæ, and having erect much branched stems, and very slenderbranchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves. Asparagusracemosus is a shrubby climbing plant with fragrant flowers.Specifically
aspartic: Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.
aspect: The situation of planets or stars with respect to one another,or the angle formed by the rays of light proceeding from them andmeeting at the eye; the joint look of planets or stars upon eachother or upon the earth. Milton.
aspect ratio: The ratio of the long to the short side of an aëroplane,aërocurve, or wing.
aspectable: Capable of being; visible. "The aspectable world." Ray."Aspectable stars." Mrs. Browning.
aspectant: Facing each other.
aspected: Having an aspect. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
aspection: The act of viewing; a look. [Obs.]
aspen: Of or pertaining to the aspen, or resembling it; made of aspenwood.Nor aspen leaves confess the gentlest breeze. Gay.
asper: Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce. [Archaic] "Anasper sound." Bacon.
asperate: To make rough or uneven.The asperated part of its surface. Boyle.
asperation: The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough. Bailey.
asperges: See Wateringpot shell.
aspergilliform: Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliformstigma. Gray.
aspermatous: Aspermous.
aspermous: Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.
asperne: To spurn; to despise. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
asperous: Rough; uneven. Boyle.
aspersed: Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered orstrewed over the surface. Cussans.
asperser: One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.
aspersive: Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous.-- As*pers"ive*ly, adv.
aspersoir: An aspergill.
asphalt: To cover with asphalt; as, to asphalt a roof; asphaltedstreets.
asphalte: Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.
asphaltic: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt;bituminous. "Asphaltic pool." "Asphaltic slime." Milton.
asphaltite: Asphaltic.
asphaltus: See Asphalt.
asphodel: A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus. Theasphodels are hardy perennial plants, several species of which arecultivated for the beauty of their flowers.
asphyctic: Pertaining to asphyxia.
asphyxial: Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.
asphyxiate: To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate.
asphyxiation: The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.
aspic: A European species of lavender (Lavandula spica), whichproduces a volatile oil. See Spike.
aspidobranchia: A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including theabalone shells and keyhole limpets.
aspirant: Aspiring.
aspirate: To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as,we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or aliquid consonant.
aspirator: An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certainliquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means ofsuction.
aspiratory: Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air
aspire: To aspire to; to long for; to try to reach; to mount to. [Obs.]That gallant spirit hath aspired the clouds. Shak.
aspirement: Aspiration. [Obs.]
aspirer: One who aspires.
aspirin: A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid usedas a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines.
aspiring: That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind.-- As*pir"ing*ly, adv.-- As*pir"ing*ness, n.
aspish: Pertaining to, or like, an asp.
asportation: The felonious removal of goods from the place where they weredeposited.
asprawl: Sprawling.
asquat: Squatting.
asquint: With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line ofvision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to lookasquint.
ass: A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than thehorse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears. The tame ordomestic ass is patient, slow, and sure-footed, and has become thetype of obstinacy and stupidity. There are several species of wildasses which are swift-footed.
assafoetida: Same as Asafetida.
assai: A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.
assailable: Capable of being assailed.
assailant: Assailing; attacking. Milton.
assailer: One who assails.
assailment: The act or power of assailing; attack; assault. [R.]His most frequent assailment was the headache. Johnson.
assamar: The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellowcolor, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like,are roasted till they turn brown.
assamese: Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or toits inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
assart: The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thusdestroying the tickets or coverts of a forest. Spelman. Cowell.
assassin: One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secretassault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared fordefense.
assassination: The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.
assassinator: An assassin.
assassinous: Murderous. Milton.
assastion: Roasting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
assault: An apparently violent attempt, or willful offer with force orviolence, to do hurt to another; an attempt or offer to beat another,accompanied by a degree of violence, but without touching his person,as by lifting the fist, or a cane, in a threatening manner, or bystriking at him, and missing him. If the blow aimed takes effect, itis a battery. Blackstone. Wharton.Practically, however, the word assault is used to include thebattery. Mozley & W.
assaultable: Capable of being assaulted.
assaulter: One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant. E. Hall.
assay: The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of aparticular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination ofthe proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.
assay pound: A small standard weight used in assaying bullion, etc.,sometimes equaling 0.5 gram, but varying with the assayer.
assay ton: A weight of 29.166 + grams used in assaying, for convenience.Since it bears the same relation to the milligram that a ton of 2000avoirdupois pounds does to the troy ounce, the weight in milligramsof precious metal obtained from an assay ton of ore gives directlythe number of ounces to the ton.
assayable: That may be assayed.
assayer: One who assays. Specifically
assaying: The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examiningmetals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.
asse: A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valuedfor its fur.
assecuration: Assurance; certainty. [Obs.]
assecure: To make sure or safe; to assure. [Obs.] Hooker.
assecution: An obtaining or acquiring. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
assegai: Same as Assagai.
assemble: To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together;to convene; to congregate.Thither he assembled all his train. Milton.All the men of Israel assembled themselves. 1 Kings viii. 2.
assembler: One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of anumber assembled.
assembly: A beat of the drum or sound of the bugle as a signal to troopsto assemble.
assemblyman: A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of astate legislature.
assent: To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement,acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.Who informed the governor . . . And the Jews also assented, sayingthat these things were so. Acts xxiv. 9.The princess assented to all that was suggested. Macaulay.
assentation: Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical orpretended concurrence.Abject flattery and indiscriminate assentation degrade as much asindiscriminate contradiction and noisy debate disgust. Ld.Chesterfield.
assentator: An obsequious; a flatterer. [R.]
assentatory: Flattering; obsequious. [Obs.] -- As*sent"a*to*ri*ly, adv.[Obs.]
assenter: One who assents.
assentient: Assenting.
assenting: Giving or implying assent.-- As*sent"ing*ly, adv.
assentive: Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying.-- As*sent"ive*ness, n.
assentment: Assent; agreement. [Obs.]
asserter: One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.The inflexible asserter of the rights of the church. Milman.
assertive: Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.In a confident and assertive form. Glanvill.As*sert"ive*ly, adv.-- As*sert"ive*ness, n.
assertor: One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates aclaim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender;an asserter.The assertors of liberty said not a word. Macaulay.Faithful assertor of thy country's cause. Prior.
assertorial: Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical andapodeictical.
assertory: Affirming; maintaining.Arguments . . . assertory, not probatory. Jer. Taylor.An assertory, not a promissory, declaration. Bentham.A proposition is assertory, when it enounces what is known as actual.Sir W. Hamilton.
assessable: Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.
assessee: One who is assessed.
assession: A sitting beside or near.
assessorial: Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.Coxe.
assessorship: The office or function of an assessor.
asset: Any article or separable part of one's assets.
assever: See Asseverate. [Archaic]
asseverate: To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.
asseveration: The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positiveaffirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.Another abuse of the tongue I might add, -- vehement asseverationsupon slight and trivial occasions. Ray.
asseverative: Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.
asseveratory: Asseverative.
assibilate: To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant. J. Peile.
assibilation: Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to -shun, duke to ditch.
assidean: One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews,and supported the Asmoneans.
assident: Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assidentsigns, or symptoms.
assiduate: Unremitting; assiduous. [Obs.] "Assiduate labor." Fabyan.
assiege: To besiege. [Obs.] "Assieged castles." Spenser.
assientist: A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties tothe Assiento contract. Bancroft.
assiento: A contract or convention between Spain and other powers forfurnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp.the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.
assign: To transfer, or make over to another, esp. to transfer to, andvest in, certain persons, called assignees, for the benefit ofcreditors. To assign dower, to set out by metes and bounds thewidow's share or portion in an estate. Kent.
assignability: The quality of being assignable.
assignable: Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated;as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignablequantity.
assignat: One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by therevolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on thesecurity of the lands of the church and of nobles which had beenappropriated by the state.
assignee: In England, the persons appointed, under a commission ofbankruptcy, to manage the estate of a bankrupt for the benefit of hiscreditors.
assigner: One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.
assignor: An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as,the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.
assimilability: The quality of being assimilable. [R.] Coleridge.
assimilable: That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriatedand incorporated.
assimilation: The conversion of nutriment into the fluid or solid substanceof the body, by the processes of digestion and absorption, whether inplants or animals.Not conversing the body, not repairing it by assimilation, butpreserving it by ventilation. Sir T. Browne.
assimilative: Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilatesor causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.
assimilatory: Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as,assimilatory organs.
assimulation: Assimilation. [Obs.] Bacon.
assinego: See Asinego.
assish: Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.Such . . . appear to be of the assich kind . . . Udall.
assist: To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time ofdistress; to help; to aid; to succor.Assist me, knight. I am undone! Shak.
assistant: Of the second grade in the staff of the army; as, an assistantsurgeon. [U.S.]
assistantly: In a manner to give aid. [R.]
assister: An assistant; a helper.
assistful: Helpful.
assistive: Lending aid, helping.
assistless: Without aid or help. [R.] Pope.
assistor: A assister.
assithment: See Assythment. [Obs.]
assizer: An officer who has the care or inspection of weights andmeasures, etc.
assizor: A juror.
assober: To make or keep sober. [Obs.] Gower.
associability: The quality of being associable, or capable of association;associableness. "The associability of feelings." H. Spencer.
associable: Liable to be affected by sympathy with other parts; -- said oforgans, nerves, muscles, etc.The stomach, the most associable of all the organs of the animalbody. Med. Rep.
associableness: Associability.
associate: Connected by habit or sympathy; as, associate motions, such asoccur sympathetically, in consequence of preceding motions. E.Darwin.
associated: Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying;combined. Associated movements (Physiol.), consensual movements whichaccompany voluntary efforts without our consciousness. Dunglison.
associateship: The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.
associationism: The doctrine or theory held by associationists.
associationist: One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soulby the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J. C. Mill.
associative: Having the quality of associating; tending or leading toassociation; as, the associative faculty. Hugh Miller.
associator: An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.How Pennsylvania's air agrees with Quakers, And Carolina's withassociators. Dryden.
assoil: To soil; to stain. [Obs. or Poet.] Beau. & Fl.Ne'er assoil my cobwebbed shield. Wordsworth.
assoilment: Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution;acquittal.
assonance: A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last accented voweland those which follow it in one word correspond in sound with thevowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words areunlike in sound; as, calamo and platano, baby and chary.The assonance is peculiar to the Spaniard. Hallam.
assonant: Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance;not consonant.
assonantal: Assonant.
assonate: To correspond in sound.
assort: To agree; to be in accordance; to be adapted; to suit; to fallinto a class or place. Mitford.
assorted: Selected; culled.
assot: To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate. [Obs.]Some ecstasy assotted had his sense. Spenser.
assuage: To soften, in a figurative sense; to allay, mitigate, ease, orlessen, as heat, pain, or grief; to appease or pacify, as passion ortumult; to satisfy, as appetite or desire.Refreshing winds the summer's heat assuage. Addison.To assuage the sorrows of a desolate old man Burke.The fount at which the panting mind assuages Her thirst of knowledge.Byron.
assuagement: Mitigation; abatement.
assuager: One who, or that which, assuages.
assuasive: Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing. [R.]Music her soft assuasive voice applies. Pope.
assubjugate: To bring into subjection. [Obs.] Shak.
assuefaction: The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed;habituation. [Obs.]Custom and studies efform the soul like wax, and by assuefactionintroduce a nature. Jer. Taylor.
assuetude: Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.Assuetude of things hurtful doth make them lose their force to hurt.Bacon.
assumable: That may be assumed.
assumably: By way of assumption.
assume: To undertake, as by a promise. Burrill.
assumedly: By assumption.
assument: A patch; an addition; a piece put on. [Obs.] John Lewis (1731).
assumer: One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes. W. D.Whitney.
assuming: Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous. Burke.
assumpt: To take up; to elevate; to assume. [Obs.] Sheldon.
assumption: The minor or second proposition in a categorical syllogism.
assumptive: Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized byassumption; making unwarranted claims.-- As*sump"tive*ly, adv. Assumptive arms (Her.), originally, armswhich a person had a right to assume, in consequence of an exploit;now, those assumed without sanction of the Heralds' College. PercySmith.
assurance: Any written or other legal evidence of the conveyance ofproperty; a conveyance; a deed.
assure: To insure; to covenant to indemnify for loss, or to pay aspecified sum at death. See Insure.
assured: Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting;bold to excess.
assuredly: Certainly; indubitably. "The siege assuredly I'll raise." Shak.
assuredness: The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.
assurgency: Act of rising.The . . . assurgency of the spirit through the body. Coleridge.
assurgent: Ascending; (Bot.)
assuring: That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence.-- As*sur"ing*ly, adv.
asswage: See Assuage.
assyrian: Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants.-- n. A native or an inhabitant of Assyria; the language of Assyria.
assyriological: Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.
assyriologist: One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archæology.
assyriology: The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., ofancient Assyria.
assythment: Indemnification for injury; satisfaction. [Chiefly in Scotslaw]
astacus: A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-waterlobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America. SeeCrawfish.
astarboard: Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.
astart: Same as Astert. [Obs.]
astarte: A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of Americaand Europe.
astate: Estate; state. [Obs.] Chaucer.
astatic: Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definiteposition or direction
astatically: In an astatic manner.
astaticism: The state of being astatic.
astatize: To render astatic.
astatki: A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russianpetroleum, much used as fuel.
astay: An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle isformed between the cable and the surface of the water.
asteism: Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deridinganother.
astel: An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads ina mine.
aster: A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers;starwort; Michaelmas daisy.
asterias: A genus of echinoderms.
asteriated: Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.
asteridian: Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea.-- n.
asterion: The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto-mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.
asteriscus: The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of manyfishes.
asterisk: The figure of a star, thus,
asterism: An optical property of some crystals which exhibit a star-shaped by reflected light, as star sapphire, or by transmitted light,as some mica.
asternal: Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.
asteroid: A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whoseorbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called alsoplanetoids and minor planets.
asteroidal: Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.
asterolepis: A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feetlong, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone. Hugh Miller.
asterope: One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.
asterophyllite: A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America,now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.
astert: To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun. [Obs.] Spenser.
asthenic: Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak;debilitating.
asthenopia: Weakness of sight. Quain.-- As`the*nop"ic, a.
asthma: A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to aspasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals,accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in thechest, a cough, and expectoration.
asthma paper: Paper impregnated with saltpeter. The fumes from the burningpaper are often inhaled as an alleviative by asthmatics.
asthmatic: A person affected with asthma.
astigmatic: Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmaticeyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.
astigmatism: A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which therays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point,thus causing imperfect images or indistictness of vision.
astipulate: To assent. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
astipulation: Stipulation; agreement. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
astir: Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.
astonied: Stunned; astonished. See Astony. [Archaic]And I astonied fell and could not pray. Mrs. Browning.
astonishedly: In an astonished manner. [R.] Bp. Hall.
astonishing: Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, anastonishing event.
astony: To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay. [Archaic]The captain of the Helots . . . strake Palladius upon the side of hishead, that he reeled astonied. Sir P. Sidney.This sodeyn cas this man astonied so, That reed he wex, abayst, andal quaking. Chaucer.
astoop: In a stooping or inclined position. Gay.
astound: Stunned; astounded; astonished. [Archaic] Spenser.Thus Ellen, dizzy and astound. As sudden ruin yawned around. Sir W.Scott.
astounding: Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astoundingforce, statement, or fact.-- As*tound"ing*ly, adv.
astoundment: Amazement. Coleridge.
astrachan: See Astrakhan.
astraddle: In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sitastraddle a horse.
astraean: Pertaining to the genus Astræa or the family Astræidæ.-- n.
astragal: A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half tothree quarters of a circle.
astragalar: Of or pertaining to the astragalus.
astragaloid: Resembling the astragalus in form.
astragalomancy: Divination by means of small bones or dice.
astragalus: The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus whicharticulates with the tibia at the ankle.
astrakhan: Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; madeof an Astrakhan skin.-- n.
astral: Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry;starlike.Shines only with an astral luster. I. Taylor.Some astral forms I must invoke by prayer. Dryden.Astral lamp, an Argand lamp so constructed that no shadow is castupon the table by the flattened ring-shaped reservoir in which theoil is contained.-- Astral spirits, spirits formerly supposed to live in the heavenlybodies or the aërial regions, and represented in the Middle Ages asfallen angels, spirits of the dead, or spirits originating in fire.
astrand: Stranded. Sir W. Scott.
astray: Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense;wandering; as, to lead one astray.Ye were as sheep going astray. 1 Pet. ii. 25.
astrict: To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. SeeAstriction, 4. Burrill.
astriction: An obligation to have the grain growing on certain lands groundat a certain mill, the owner paying a toll. Bell.
astrictive: Binding; astringent.-- n.
astrictory: Astrictive. [R.]
astride: With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with thelegs stretched wide apart; astraddle.Placed astride upon the bars of the palisade. Sir W. Scott.Glasses with horn bows sat astride on his nose. Longfellow.
astriferous: Bearing stars. [R.] Blount.
astringency: The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting theparts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substanceswhich causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringencyof tannin.
astringent: A medicine or other substance that produces contraction in thesoft organic textures, and checks discharges of blood, mucus, etc.External astringents are called styptics. Dunglison.
astringently: In an astringent manner.
astringer: A falconer who keeps a goschawk. [Obs.] Shak. Cowell. [Writtenalso austringer.]
astro-: The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.
astrogeny: The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens. H.Spencer.
astrognosy: The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.Bouvier.
astrogony: Same as Astrogeny.-- As`*tro*gon"ic, a.
astrography: The art of describing or delineating the stars; a descriptionor mapping of the heavens.
astroite: A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone. [Obs.] [Written alsoastrite and astrion.]
astrolabe: An instrument for observing or showing the positions of thestars. It is now disused.
astrolater: A worshiper of the stars. Morley.
astrolatry: The worship of the stars.
astrolithology: The science of aërolites.
astrologian: An astrologer. [Obs.]
astrologize: To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.
astrology: In its etymological signification, the science of the stars;among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the artof judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs, and offoretelling events by their position and aspects.
astromantic: Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars;astrologic. [R.] Dr. H. More.
astrometeorology: The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, andstars, and the weather.-- As`*tro*me`te*or`o*log"ic*al, a.-- As`tro*me`te*or*ol"o*gist, n.
astrometer: An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light ofstars.
astrometry: The art of making measurements among the stars, or ofdetermining their relative magnitudes.
astronomian: An astrologer. [Obs.]
astronomic: Astronomical.
astronomical: Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methodsor principles of astronomy.-- As`tro*nom"ic*al*ly, adv. Astronomical clock. See under Clock.-- Astronomical day. See under Day.-- Astronomical fractions, Astronomical numbers. See underSexagesimal.
astronomize: To study or to talk astronomy. [R.]They astronomized in caves. Sir T. Browne.
astrophel: See Astrofel. [Obs.]
astrophotography: The application of photography to the delineation of the sun,moon, and stars.
astrophotometer: A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.
astrophotometry: The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of thesun, moon, and planets. --As`tro*pho`to*met"ric*al (#), a.
astrophysical: Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.
astrophysics: The science treating of the physical characteristics of thestars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light,heat, atmospheres, etc.
astrophyton: A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.
astroscope: An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whosesurface the constellations were delineated.
astroscopy: Observation of the stars. [Obs.]
astrotheology: Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestialbodies. Derham.
astructive: Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive. [Obs.]
astucious: Subtle; cunning; astute. [R.] Sir W. Scott.-- As*tu"cious*ly, adv. [R.]
astucity: Craftiness; astuteness. [R.] Carlyle.
astun: To stun. [Obs.] "Breathless and astunned." Somerville.
asturian: Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain.-- n.
astute: Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.
astylar: Without columns or pilasters. Weale.
astyllen: A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit orlevel.
asunder: Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two;separately; into or in different pieces or places.I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder. Zech. xi. 10.As wide asunder as pole and pole. Froude.
asura: An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.
aswail: The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.
asweve: To stupefy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aswing: In a state of swinging.
aswoon: In a swoon. Chaucer.
aswooned: In a swoon.
asymmetral: Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical. [Obs.] D. H. More.
asymmetrous: Asymmetrical. [Obs.] Barrow.
asymmetry: Incommensurability. [Obs.] Barrow.
asymptote: A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignabledistance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it.Asymptotes may be straight lines or curves. A rectilinear asymptotemay be conceived as a tangent to the curve at an infinite distance.
asynartete: Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted.-- A*syn"ar*tet"ic, a. Asynartete verse (Pros.), a verse of twomembers, having different rhythms; as when the first consists ofiambuses and the second of trochees.
asynchronous: Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; --opposed tosynchronous.
asyndetic: Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected byconjunctions.-- As`yn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
asyndeton: A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, Iconquered. It stands opposed to polysyndeton.
asystole: A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.
asystolism: The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.
at: Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence,nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninthhour; at the house; to aim at a mark. It is less definite than in oron; at the house may be in or near the house. From this originalimport are derived all the various uses of at. It expresses
atabal: A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors. Croly.
atacamite: An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismaticcrystals.
atafter: After. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ataghan: See Yataghan.
atake: To overtake. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ataman: A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.
atamasco lily: See under Lily.
atavic: Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.
ataxic: Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity offunctions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power inmovements. Ataxic fever, malignant typhus fever. Pinel.
atazir: The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men. [Obs.]Chaucer.
ate: the preterit of Eat.
atechnic: Without technical or artistic knowledge.Difficult to convey to the atechnic reader. Etching & Engr.
ateles: A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and havingthe thumb wanting or rudimentary. See Spider monkey, and Coaita.
atelier: A workshop; a studio.
atellan: Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellanplays; farcical; ribald.-- n.
athalamous: Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as thethallus of certain lichens.
athamaunt: Adamant. [Obs.]Written in the table of athamaunt. Chaucer.
athanasian: Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4thcentury. Athanasian creed, a formulary, confession, or exposition offaith, formerly supposed to have been drawn up by Athanasius; butthis opinion is now rejected, and the composition is ascribed by someto Hilary, bishop of Arles (5th century). It is a summary of what wascalled the orthodox faith.
athanor: A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists. It was soconstructed as to maintain uniform and durable heat. Chambers.
athecata: A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or notinclosed in a capsule. See Tubularian.
atheize: To render atheistic or godless. [R.]They endeavored to atheize one another. Berkeley.
atheling: An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or aprince of the royal family. [Written also Adeling and Ætheling.]
athenian: Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece.-- n. A native or citizen of Athens.
atheological: Opposed to theology; atheistic. Bp. Montagu.
atheology: Antagonism to theology. Swift.
atherine: A small marine fish of the family Atherinidæ, having a silverystripe along the sides. The European species (Atherina presbyter) isused as food. The American species (Menidia notata) is calledsilversides and sand smelt. See Silversides.
athermancy: Inability to transmit radiant; impermeability to heat. Tyndall.
athermanous: Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.
athermous: Athermanous.
atheroid: Shaped like an ear of grain.
atheromatous: Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma. Wiseman.
athetize: To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with anobelus.
athetosis: A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingersand toes.
athink: To repent; to displease; to disgust. [Obs.] Chaucer.
athlete: One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancientGreece or Rome.
athleticism: The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.
athletics: The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sportsof athletes.
athletism: The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of anathlete.
athrepsia: Profound debility of children due to lack of food and tounhygienic surroundings. --A*threp"tic (#), a.
athwart: Across the direction or course of; as, a fleet standing athwartour course. Athwart hawse, across the stem of another vessel, whetherin contact or at a small distance.-- Athwart ships, across the ship from side to side, or in thatdirection; -- opposed to fore and aft.
atimy: Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.Mitford.
atlanta: A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming atthe surface in mid ocean. See Heteropod.
atlantes: Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support anentablature; -- called also telamones. See Caryatides. Oxf. Gloss.
atlantides: The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughtersof Atlas.
atlas: The first vertebra of the neck, articulating immediately withthe skull, thus sustaining the globe of the head, whence the name.
atlas powder: A blasting powder or dynamite composed of nitroglycerin, woodfiber, sodium nitrate, and magnesium carbonate.
atmiatry: Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation.
atmidometer: An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, orsnow. Brande & C.
atmo: The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physicalmeasurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under whichthe barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0ºCentigrade, at the level of the sea, and in the latitude of Paris.Sir W. Thomson.
atmologist: One who is versed in atmology.
atmology: That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomenaof aqueous vapor. Whewell.
atmolysis: The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequaldiffusibility by transmission through porous substances.
atmolyzation: Separation by atmolysis.
atmolyze: To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.
atmolyzer: An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.
atmometer: An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from amoist surface; an evaporometer. Huxley.
atmospherically: In relation to the atmosphere.
atmospherology: The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.
atokous: Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certainannelids.
atole: A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like.[Sp. Amer.]
atoll: A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef,partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; alagoon island.
atom: The smallest particle of matter that can enter intocombination; one of the elementary constituents of a molecule.
atomically: In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.
atomician: An atomist. [R.]
atomicism: Atomism. [Obs.]
atomicity: Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (alater use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule. SeeValence.
atomism: The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.
atomist: One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory. Locke.
atomistic: Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism. [R.]It is the object of the mechanical atomistic philosophy to confoundsynthesis with synartesis. Coleridge.
atomization: The reduction of fluids into fine spray.
atomize: To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.The liquids in the form of spray are said to be pulverized,nebulized, or atomized. Dunglison.
atomizer: One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument forreducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.
atomology: The doctrine of atoms. Cudworth.
atomy: An atom; a mite; a pigmy.
atonable: Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.
atoner: One who makes atonement.
atones: Etym
atonic: Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonicdisease.
atony: Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ,especially of such as are contractile.
atop: On or at the top. Milton.
atrabilarian: A person much given to melancholy; a hypochondriac. I.Disraeli.
atrabiliar: Melancholy; atrabilious.
atrabilious: Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary. Dunglision.A hard-faced, atrabilious, earnest-eyed race. Lowell.He was constitutionally atrabilious and scornful. Froude.
atramentaceous: Black, like ink; inky; atramental. [Obs.] Derham.
atramentarious: Like ink; suitable for making ink. Sulphate of iron (copperas,green vitriol) is called atramentarious, as being used in making ink.
atrede: To surpass in council. [Obs.]Men may the olde atrenne, but hat atrede. Chaucer.
atrenne: To outrun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
atresia: Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body;imperforation.
atrial: Of or pertaining to an atrium.
atrium: The main part of either auricle of the heart as distinct fromthe auricular appendix. Also, the whole articular portion of theheart.
atrocha: A kind of chætopod larva in which no circles of cilia aredeveloped.
atrophic: Relating to atrophy.
atrophied: Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested indevelopment at a very early stage; rudimentary.
atrophy: A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk orslow emaciation of the body or of any part. Milton.
atropia: Same as Atropine.
atropine: A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from theAtropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium,or thorn apple. It is remarkable for its power in dilating the pupilof the eye. Called also daturine.
atropism: A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.
atropous: Not inverted; orthotropous.
atrous: Coal-black; very black.
atrypa: A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurianlimestones.
attabal: See Atabal.
attacca: Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to showthat the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.
attach: An attachment. [Obs.] Pope.
attachable: Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ orprecept.
attache: One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suiteor staff. Specifically
attack: To make an onset or attack.
attackable: Capable of being attacked.
attacker: One who attacks.
attaghan: See Yataghan.
attain: Attainment. [Obs.]
attainability: The quality of being attainable; attainbleness.
attainableness: The quality of being attainable; attainability.
attaint: To find guilty; to convict; -- said esp. of a jury on trial forgiving a false verdict. [Obs.]Upon sufficient proof attainted of some open act by men of his owncondition. Blackstone.
attaintment: Attainder; attainture; conviction.
attainture: Attainder; disgrace.
attal: Same as Attle.
attaminate: To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate. [Obs.] Blount.
attar: A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrantessential oil obtained from the petals of roses. [Also written ottoand ottar.]
attask: To take to task; to blame. Shak.
attaste: To taste or cause to taste. [Obs.] Chaucer.
atte: At the. [Obs.] Chaucer.
attemperament: A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.
attemperance: Temperance; attemperament. [Obs.] Chaucer.
attemperate: Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.Hope must be . . . attemperate to the promise. Hammond.
attemperation: The act of attempering or regulating. [Archaic] Bacon.
attemperly: Temperately. [Obs.] Chaucer.
attemperment: Attemperament.
attempt: To make an attempt; -- with upon. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
attemptable: Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked. Shak.
attemptive: Disposed to attempt; adventurous. [Obs.] Daniel.
attendancy: The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; anattendant. [Obs.]
attendant: Depending on, or owing duty or service to; as, the widowattendant to the heir. Cowell. Attendant keys (Mus.), the keys orscales most nearly related to, or having most in common with, theprincipal key; those, namely, of its fifth above, or dominant, itsfifth below (fourth above), or subdominant, and its relative minor ormajor.
attendement: Intent. [Obs.] Spenser.
attender: One who, or that which, attends.
attendment: An attendant circumstance. [Obs.]The uncomfortable attendments of hell. Sir T. Browne.
attent: Attentive; heedful. [Archaic]Let thine ears be attent unto the prayer. 2 Chron. vi. 40.
attently: Attentively. [Obs.] Barrow.
attenuant: Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense andviscid; diluent.-- n. (Med.)
attenuate: To become thin, slender, or fine; to grow less; to lessen.The attention attenuates as its sphere contracts. Coleridge.
atter: Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore. [Obs.] Holland.
atterrate: To fill up with alluvial earth. [Obs.] Ray.
atterration: The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land withalluvial earth. [Obs.]
attest: Witness; testimony; attestation. [R.]The attest of eyes and ears. Shak.
attestation: The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or officialdeclaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence. Thetruth appears from the attestation of witnesses, or of the properofficer. The subscription of a name to a writing as a witness, is anattestation.
attestative: Of the nature of attestation.
attestive: Attesting; furnishing evidence.
attic: Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, itsprincipal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic ofthe Athenians; classical; refined. Attic base (Arch.), a peculiarform of molded base for a column or pilaster, described by Vitruvius,applied under the Roman Empire to the Ionic and Corinthian and "RomanDoric" orders, and imitated by the architects of the Renaissance.-- Attic faith, inviolable faith.-- Attic purity, special purity of language.-- Attic salt, Attic wit, a poignant, delicate wit, peculiar to theAthenians.-- Attic story. See Attic, n.-- Attic style, a style pure and elegant.
attical: Attic. [Obs.] Hammond.
atticize: To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc.,of Attica.
attiguous: Touching; bordering; contiguous. [Obs.] -- At*tig"u*ous*ness,n. [Obs.]
attinge: To touch lightly. [Obs.] Coles.
attire: To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant orsplendid garments.Finely attired in a robe of white. Shak.With the linen miter shall he be attired. Lev. xvi. 4.
attired: Provided with antlers, as a stag.
attirement: Attire; adornment.
attirer: One who attires.
attitude: The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.
attitudinal: Relating to attitude.
attitudinarian: One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.
attitudinarianism: A practicing of attitudes; posture making.
attitudinize: To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.Maria, who is the most picturesque figure, was put to attitudinize atthe harp. Hannah More.
attitudinizer: One who practices attitudes.
attle: Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing littleor no ore. Weale.
attollent: Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle. Derham.
attonce: At once; together. [Obs.] Spenser.
attone: See At one. [Obs.]
attorn: To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord toanother. This is the act of feudatories, vassals, or tenants, uponthe alienation of the estate. Blackstone.
attorney: To perform by proxy; to employ as a proxy. [Obs.] Shak.
attorney-general: The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in alllitigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advisethis supreme executive whenever required. Wharton.
attorneyism: The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.
attorneyship: The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.Shak.
attornment: The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which heconsents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord orsuperior, and transfers to him his homage and service; the agreementof a tenant to acknowledge the purchaser of the estate as hislandlord. Burrill. Blackstone.
attract: Attraction. [Obs.] Hudibras.
attractability: The quality or fact of being attractable. Sir W. Jones.
attractable: Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction.-- At*tract"a*ble*ness, n.
attracter: One who, or that which, attracts.
attractile: Having power to attract.
attracting: That attracts.-- At*tract"ing*ly, adv.
attraction: An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything toitself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies orultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to producetheir cohesion or combination, and conversely resisting separation.
attractive: That which attracts or draws; an attraction; an allurement.Speaks nothing but attractives and invitation. South.
attractivity: The quality or degree of attractive power.
attractor: One who, or that which, attracts. Sir T. Browne
attrahent: Attracting; drawing; attractive.
attrap: To entrap; to insnare. [Obs.] Grafton.
attrectation: Frequent handling or touching. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
attributable: Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.Errors . . . attributable to carelessness. J. D. Hooker.
attribute: To ascribe; to consider (something) as due or appropriate (to);to refer, as an effect to a cause; to impute; to assign; to consideras belonging (to).We attribute nothing to God that hath any repugnancy or contradictionin it. Abp. Tillotson.The merit of service is seldom attributed to the true and exactperformer. Shak.
attributive: Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning anattribute; of the nature of an attribute.
attributively: In an attributive manner.
attrite: Repentant from fear of punishment; having attrition of grieffor sin; -- opposed to contrite.
attrition: Grief for sin arising only from fear of punishment or feelingsof shame. See Contrition. Wallis.
attritus: Matter pulverized by attrition.
attry: Poisonous; malignant; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
atwain: In twain; asunder. [Obs. or Poetic] "Cuts atwain the knots."Tennyson.
atween: Between. [Archaic] Spenser. Tennyson.
atwirl: Twisted; distorted; awry. [R.] Halliwell.
atwite: To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid. [Obs.]
atwixt: Betwixt. [Obs.] Spenser.
atwo: In two; in twain; asunder. [Obs.] Chaucer.
au fait: Expert; skillful; well instructed.
au fond: At bottom; fundamentally; essentially.
au gratin: With a crust made by browning in the oven; as, spaghetti may beserved au gratin.
au revoir: Good-by until we meet again.
aubade: An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from anevening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive ofmorning. Grove.The crowing cock . . . Sang his aubade with lusty voice and clear.Longfellow.
aubaine: Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized. Littré.Droit d'aubaine (, the right, formerly possessed by the king ofFrance, to all the personal property of which an alien diedpossessed. It was abolished in 1819. Bouvier.
aube: An alb. [Obs.] Fuller.
auberge: An inn. Beau. & Fl.
aubin: A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; --commonly called a Canterbury gallop.
auchenium: The part of the neck nearest the back.
auctary: That which is superadded; augmentation. [Obs.] Baxter.
auction: To sell by auction.
auction bridge: A variety of the game of bridge in which the players, beginningwith the dealer, bid for the privilege of naming the trump andplaying with the dummy for that deal, there being heavy penalties fora player's failure to make good his bid. The score value of eachtrick more than six taken by the successful bidder is as follows:when the trump is spades, 2; clubs, 6; diamonds, 7; hearts, 8; royalspades (lilies), 9; and when the deal is played with no trump, 10.
auction pitch: A game of cards in which the players bid for the privilege ofdetermining or "pitching" the trump suit.  R. F. Foster.
auctionary: Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer. [R.]With auctionary hammer in thy hand. Dryden.
auctioneer: A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is todispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or bestbidder.
aucupation: Birdcatching; fowling. [Obs.] Blount.
audaciously: In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.
audaciousness: The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.
audibility: The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audiblecapacity.
audible: Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actuallyheard; as, an audible voice or whisper.
audibleness: The quality of being audible.
audibly: So as to be heard.
audient: Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls. Mrs. Browning.
audile: One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or ofinternal discourse rather than of visual or motor images.
audiometer: An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged andrecorded on a scale.
audiphone: An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound tothe auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or lessdistinctly; a dentiphone.
audit: To examine and adjust, as an account or accounts; as, to auditthe accounts of a treasure, or of parties who have a suit dependingin court.
audita querela: A writ which lies for a party against whom judgment isrecovered, but to whom good matter of discharge has subsequentlyaccrued which could not have been availed of to prevent suchjudgment. Wharton.
audition: The act of hearing or listening; hearing.Audition may be active or passive; hence the difference betweenlistening and simple hearing. Dunglison.
auditive: Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory. [R.] Cotgrave.
auditorial: Auditory. [R.]
auditorium: The part of a church, theater, or other public building,assigned to the audience.
auditorship: The office or function of auditor.
auditory: Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs ofhearing; as, the auditory nerve. See Ear. Auditory canal (Anat.), thetube from the auditory meatus or opening of the ear to the tympanicmembrane.
auditress: A female hearer. Milton.
auditual: Auditory. [R.] Coleridge.
auf: A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; adeformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf. [Obs.] Drayton.
aufklarung: A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by alively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politicsand general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science.It received its impetus from the unsystematic but vigorous skepticismof Pierre Bayle, the physical doctrines of Newton, and theepistemological theories of Locke, in the preceding century. Itschief center was in France, where it gave rise to the skepticism ofVoltaire , the naturalism of Rousseau, the sensationalism ofCondillac, and the publication of the "Encyclopedia" by D'Alembertand Diderot. In Germany, Lessing, Mendelssohn, and Herder wererepresentative thinkers, while the political doctrines of the leadersof the American Revolution and the speculations of Benjamin Franklinand Thomas Paine represented the movement in America.
augean: Of or pertaining to Augeus, king of Elis, whose stablecontained 3000 oxen, and had not been cleaned for 30 years. Herculescleansed it in a single day.
auget: A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery,or place where the slow match is applied. Knight.
aught: Anything; any part. [Also written ought.]There failed not aught of any good thing which the Lord has spoken.Josh. xxi. 45But go, my son, and see if aught be wanting. Addison.
augite: A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color,occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead ofthe general term pyroxene.
augitic: Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as aprincipal constituent; as, augitic rocks.
augment: To add an augment to.
augmentable: Capable of augmentation. Walsh.
augmentation: A additional charge to a coat of arms, given as a mark ofhonor. Cussans.
augmentative: Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressingaugmentation.-- Aug*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.
augmenter: One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.
augrim: See Algorism. [Obs.] Chaucer. Augrim stones, pebbles formerlyused in numeration.-- Noumbres of Augrim, Arabic numerals. Chaucer.
augur: An official diviner who foretold events by the singing,chattering, flight, and feeding of birds, or by signs or omensderived from celestial phenomena, certain appearances of quadrupeds,or unusual occurrences.
augural: Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous;significant; as, an augural staff; augural books. "Portents augural."Cowper.
augurate: To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict. [Obs.] C.Middleton.
auguration: The practice of augury.
augurer: An augur. [Obs.] Shak.
augurial: Relating to augurs or to augury. Sir T. Browne.
augurist: An augur. [R.]
augurize: To augur. [Obs.] Blount.
augurous: Full of augury; foreboding. [Obs.] "Augurous hearts." Chapman.
augurship: The office, or period of office, of an augur. Bacon.
august: Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; havingan aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; havingexalted birth, character, state, or authority. "Forms august." Pope."August in visage." Dryden. "To shed that august blood." Macaulay.So beautiful and so august a spectacle. Burke.To mingle with a body so august. Byron.
augustan: A member of one of the religious orders called after St.Augustine; an Austin friar.
augustinian: Of or pertaining to St. Augustine, bishop of Hippo in NorthernAfrica (b. 354 -- d. 430), or to his doctrines. Augustinian canons,an order of monks once popular in England and Ireland; -- called alsoregular canons of St. Austin, and black canons.-- Augustinian hermits or Austin friars, an order of friarsestablished in 1265 by Pope Alexander IV. It was introduced into theUnited States from Ireland in 1790.-- Augustinian nuns, an order of nuns following the rule of St.Augustine.-- Augustinian rule, a rule for religious communities based upon the109th letter of St. Augustine, and adopted by the Augustinian orders.
augustly: In an august manner.
augustness: The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur;magnificence.
auk: A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of thefamily Alcidæ. The great auk, now extinct, is Alca (or Plautus)impennis. The razor-billed auk is A. torda. See Puffin, Guillemot,and Murre.
aukward: See Awkward. [Obs.]
aularian: Relating to a hall.
auld: Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh. [Scot. &Prov. Eng.]
auld lang syne: A Scottish phrase used in recalling recollections of times longsince past. "The days of auld lang syne."
auletic: Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper. [R.] Ash.
aulic: Pertaining to a royal court.Ecclesiastical wealth and aulic dignities. Landor.Aulic council (Hist.), a supreme court of the old German empire;properly the supreme court of the emperor. It ceased at the death ofeach emperor, and was renewed by his successor. It became extinctwhen the German empire was dissolved, in 1806. The term is nowapplied to a council of the war department of the Austrian empire,and the members of different provincial chanceries of that empire arecalled aulic councilors. P. Cyc.
auln: An ell. [Obs.] See Aune.
aum: Same as Aam.
aumail: To figure or variegate. [Obs.] Spenser.
aumbry: Same as Ambry.
aumery: A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if aplace for alms.
auncel: A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerlyused in England. Halliwell.
auncetry: Ancestry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aune: A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (atParis, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.
aunter: Adventure; hap. [Obs.] In aunters, perchance.
auntrous: Adventurous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
aura: The peculiar sensation, as of a light vapor, or cold air,rising from the trunk or limbs towards the head, a premonitorysymptom of epilepsy or hysterics. Electric ~, a supposed electricfluid, emanating from an electrified body, and forming a masssurrounding it, called the electric atmosphere. See Atmosphere, 2.
aural: Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.
aurantiaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceæ, an order ofplants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is thetype.
aurate: A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate orpotassium.
aurated: Combined with auric acid.
aureate: Golden; gilded. Skelton.
aurelian: Of or pertaining to the aurelia.
auric: Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of thosecompounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as,auric oxide; auric chloride.
aurichalceous: Brass-colored.
aurichalcite: A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green orblue crystalline aggregations. It yields a kind of brass onreduction.
auricle: An angular or ear-shaped lobe.
auricled: Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricledleaves.
auricular: Pertaining to the auricles of the heart. Auricular finger, thelittle finger; so called because it can be readily introduced intothe ear passage.
auricularia: A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
auricularly: In an auricular manner.
auriculars: A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear ofbirds.
auriferous: Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.Whence many a bursting stream auriferous plays. Thomson.~= pyrites, iron pyrites (iron disulphide), containing some golddisseminated through it.
auriflamme: See Oriflamme.
auriform: Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.
auriga: The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northernhemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini. It contains thebright star Capella.
aurigal: Of or pertaining to a chariot. [R.]
aurigation: The act of driving a chariot or a carriage. [R.] De Quincey.
aurigraphy: The art of writing with or in gold.
aurilave: An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a smallpiece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle.
aurin: A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, incommerce, yellow coralin.
auriphrygiate: Embroidered or decorated with gold. [R.] Southey.
auripigment: See Orpiment. [Obs.]
auriscalp: An earpick.
auriscope: An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.
auriscopy: Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.
aurist: One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.
aurited: Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.
aurivorous: Gold-devouring. [R.] H. Walpole.
aurocephalous: Having a gold-colored head.
aurochloride: The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride ofanother metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.
aurochs: The European bison (Bison bonasus, or Europæus), once widelydistributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in theLithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus. It is distinct fromthe Urus of Cæsar, with which it has often been confused.
aurocyanide: A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; --called also cyanaurate.
aurora: The Roman personification of the dawn of day; the goddess ofthe morning. The poets represented her a rising out of the ocean, ina chariot, with rosy fingers dropping gentle dew.
auroral: Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or thenorthern lights); rosy.Her cheeks suffused with an auroral blush. Longfellow.
aurous: Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of thosecompounds of gold in which this element has its lower valence; as,aurous oxide.
aurum: Gold. Aurum fulminans (See Fulminate.-- Aurum mosaicum (See Mosaic.
auscult: To auscultate.
auscultate: To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.
auscultation: An examination by listening either directly with the ear(immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as theabdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate ~), in order to distinguishsounds recognized as a sign of health or of disease.
auscultator: One who practices auscultation.
auscultatory: Of or pertaining to auscultation. Dunglison.
ausonian: Italian. Milton.
auspicate: Auspicious. [Obs.] Holland.
auspicial: Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious. [R.]
auster: The south wind. Pope.
austerely: Severely; rigidly; sternly.A doctrine austerely logical. Macaulay.
austin: Augustinian; as, Austin friars.
austral: Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land;austral ocean. Austral signs (Astron.), the last six signs of thezodiac, or those south of the equator.
australasian: Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions.-- n.
australian: Of or pertaining to Australia.-- n.
australian ballot: A system of balloting or voting in public elections, originallyused in South Australia, in which there is such an arrangement forpolling votes that secrecy is compulsorily maintained, and the ballotused is an official ballot printed and distributed by the government.
australize: To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet. [Obs.]They [magnets] do septentrionate at one extreme, and australize atanother. Sir T. Browne.
austrian: Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants.-- n.
austrine: Southern; southerly; austral. [Obs.] Bailey.
austro-hungarian: Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria andHungary.
austromancy: Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of thewinds.
auszug: See Army organization, Switzerland.
autarchy: Self-sufficiency. [Obs.] Milton.
authentic: Vested with all due formalities, and legally attested.
authentical: Authentic. [Archaic]
authentically: In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuineauthority.
authenticalness: The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Barrow.
authenticly: Authentically.
authenticness: The quality of being authentic; authenticity. [R.] Hammond.
authentics: A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian,by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authencity.Bouvier.
authoress: A female author. Glover.
authorial: Of or pertaining to an author. "The authorial Hare.
authorism: Authoriship. [R.]
authorizable: Capable of being authorized. Hammond.
authorization: The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment byauthority; sanction or warrant.The authorization of laws. Motley.A special authorization from the chief. Merivale.
authorized: , to rely for authority. [Obs.]Authorizing himself, for the most part, upon other histories. Sir P.Sidney.
authorizer: One who authorizes.
authorless: Without an author; without authority; anonymous.
authorly: Authorial. [R.] Cowper.
authotype: A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph. Knight.
auto-: A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one'sown, itself, its own.
auto-de-fe: Same as Auto-da-fé.
auto-infection: Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in theorganism itself.
auto-inoculation: Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.
auto-intoxication: Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxicsubstances produced within the body; autotoxæmia.
autobiographer: One who writers his own life or biography.
autobiographist: One who writes his own life; an autobiographer. [R.]
autobiography: A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's lifewritten by one's self.
autocatalysis: Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its ownproducts, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of asmall portion of it. -- Au`to*cat`a*lyt"ic (#), a.
autocephalous: Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchaljurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.
autochronograph: An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printingof time. Knight.
autochthon: Aboriginal; indigenous; native.
autochthonism: The state of being autochthonal.
autochthony: An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.
autoclastic: Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciatedstructure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciatedmaterials brought from a distance.
autoclave: A kind of French stewpan with a steamtight lid. Knight.
autocoherer: A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector.
autocracy: The action of the vital principle, or of the instinctivepowers, toward the preservation of the individual; also, the vitalprinciple. [In this sense, written also autocrasy.] Dunglison.
autocrat: Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute;holding independent and arbitrary powers of government.-- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
autocrator: An autocrat. [Archaic]
autocratorical: Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.
autocratrix: A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a titlegiven to the empresses of Russia.
autocratship: The office or dignity of an autocrat.
autodidact: One who is self-taught; an automath.
autodynamic: Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of thenature of a water-ram.
autoecious: Passing through all its stages on one host, as certainparasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heterocious.
autoecism: Quality of being autocious.
autofecundation: Self-impregnation. Darwin.
autogamous: Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.
autogamy: Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived fromthe same blossom as the pistil acted upon.
autogeneal: Self-produced; autogenous.
autogenesis: Spontaneous generation.
autogenetic: Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.
autogenetic drainage: A system of natural drainage developed by the constituentstreams through headwater erosion.
autogenetic topography: A system of land forms produced by the free action of rain andstreams on rocks of uniform texture.
autogenous: Self-generated; produced independently.
autogenously: In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.
autograph: That which is written with one's own hand; an originalmanuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.
autographal: Autographic. [Obs.]
autoharp: A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which,when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form achord.
autohypnotic: Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing. -- n.
autohypnotism: Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention onsome object or idea.
autokinesis: Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internalcause.
autokinetic: Self-moving; moving automatically.
autokinetic system: In fire-alarm telegraphy, a system so arranged that when onealarm is being transmitted, no other alarm, sent in from anotherpoint, will be transmitted until after the first alarm has beendisposed of.
autolatry: Self-worship. Farrar.
automath: One who is self-taught. [R.] Young.
automatically: In an automatic manner.
automatism: The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self-moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action. (Metaph.) Atheory as to the activity of matter.
automatous: Automatic. [Obs.] "Automatous organs." Sir T. Browne.
automixte system: A system (devised by Henri Pieper, a Belgian) of drivingautomobiles employing a gasoline engine and an auxiliary reversibledynamo. When there is an excess of power the dynamo is driven by theengine so as to charge a small storage battery; when there is adeficiency of power the dynamo reverses and acts as an auxiliarymotor. Sometimes called Pieper system. -- Automixte car, etc.
automobile: An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelledvehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway. Automobiles areusually propelled by internal combustion engines (using volatileinflammable liquids, as gasoline or petrol, alcohol, naphtha, etc.),steam engines, or electric motors. The power of the driving motorvaries from about 4 to 50 H. P. for ordinary vehicles, ranging fromthe run-about to the touring car, up to as high as 200 H. P. forspecially built racing cars. Automobiles are also commonly, andgenerally in British usage, called motor cars.
automobilism: The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like,of those who use them. -- Au`to*mo"bil*ist, n.
automorphic: Patterned after one's self.The conception which any one frames of another's mind is more or lessafter the pattern of his own mind, -- is automorphic. H. Spenser.
automorphism: Automorphic characterization. H. Spenser.
autonomasy: The use of a word of common or general signification for thename of a particular thing; as, "He has gone to town," for, "He hasgone to London."
autonomic: Having the power of self-government; autonomous. Hickok.
autonomist: One who advocates autonomy.
autonomous: Having independent existence or laws.
autonomy: The sovereignty of reason in the sphere of morals; or man'spower, as possessed of reason, to give law to himself. In this,according to Kant, consist the true nature and only possible proof ofliberty. Fleming.
autopathic: Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure andcharacteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, anautopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases.
autophagi: Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food assoon as hatched.
autophagy: The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutritionby consumption of one's own tissues.
autophoby: Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical. [R.] Hare.
autophony: An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone ofthe observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close tothe patient's chest. Dunglison.
autoplastic: Of or pertaining to autoplasty.
autoplasty: The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a pieceof healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply thedeficiency caused by disease or wounds.
autopneumatic: Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.
autopsorin: That which is given under the doctrine of administering apatient's own virus.
autopsy: Dissection of a dead body, for the purpose of ascertaining thecause, seat, or nature of a disease; a post-mortem examination.
autoptically: By means of ocular view, or one's own observation. Sir T.Browne.
autostability: Automatic stability; also, inherent stability. An aëroplane isinherently stable if it keeps in steady poise by virtue of its shapeand proportions alone; it is automatically stable if it keeps insteady poise by means of self-operative mechanism.
autostylic: Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium,as in the skulls of the Amphibia.
autosuggestion: Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming fromanother, esp. in hypnotism. Autosuggestion is characteristic ofcertain mental conditions in which expectant belief tends to producedisturbance of function of one or more organs.
autotheist: One given to self-worship. [R.]
autotoxic: Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxæmia.
autotoxication: Same as Auto-intoxication.
autotransformer: A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as asecondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator orbalancing coil.
autotrophic: Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in whichphotosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism orsaprophytism.
autotropism: The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line whenuninfluenced by external stimuli.
autotypography: A process resembling "nature printing," by which drawingsexecuted on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from whichthe printing is done as from copperplate.
autotypy: The art or process of making autotypes.
autunite: A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring intabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales. H., 2-2.5. Sp. gr., 3.05-3.19.
auxanometer: An instrument to measure the growth of plants. Goodale.
auxesis: A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for theproper word; amplification; hyperbole.
auxetic: Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.
auxetophone: A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by therecording stylus on the principle of the relay. It produces muchclearer and louder tones than does the ordinary vibrating diskreproducer.
auxiliar: Auxiliary. [Archaic]The auxiliar troops and Trojan hosts appear. Pope.
auxiliarly: By way of help. Harris.
auxiliary: Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary;as auxiliary troops. Auxiliary scales (Mus.), the scales of relativeor attendant keys. See under Attendant, a.-- Auxiliary verbs (Gram.). See Auxiliary, n., 3.
auxiliatory: Auxiliary; helping. [Obs.]
auxometer: An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens orsystem of lenses.
ava: Same as Kava. Johnston.
avadavat: Same as Amadavat.
avail: To be of use or advantage; to answer the purpose; to havestrength, force, or efficacy sufficient to accomplish the object; as,the plea in bar must avail, that is, be sufficient to defeat thesuit; this scheme will not avail; medicines will not avail to checkthe disease. "What signs avail " Milton.Words avail very little with me, young man. Sir W. Scott.
availably: In an available manner; profitably; advantageously;efficaciously.
availment: Profit; advantage. [Obs.]
avale: To descend; to fall; to dismount. [Obs.]And from their sweaty courses did avale. Spenser.
avant: The front of an army. [Obs.] See Van.
avant-courier: A person dispatched before another person or company, to givenotice of his or their approach.
avant-guard: The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.
avaricious: Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous ofaccumulating property.
avarous: Avaricious. [Obs.]
avast: Cease; stop; stay. "Avast heaving." Totten.
avatar: The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a manor an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.
avaunce: To advance; to profit. Chaucer.
avaunt: Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalentto the phrase "Get thee gone."
avauntour: A boaster. [Obs.] Chaucer.
avel: To pull away. [Obs.]Yet are not these parts avelled. Sir T. Browne.
avellane: In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.
avena: A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa);the oat grasses.
avenaceous: Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.
avenage: A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu ofrent. Jacob.
avenalin: A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similarin composition to excelsin, but different in reactions andcrystalline form.
avener: An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provideoats for the horses. [Obs.]
avenge: To take vengeance. Levit. xix. 18.
avengeance: Vengeance. [Obs.]
avengeful: Vengeful. [Obs.] Spenser.
avengement: The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.[R.] Milton.
avengeress: A female avenger. [Obs.] Spenser.
avenious: Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.
avenor: See Avener. [Obs.]
avens: A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.
aventail: The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.
aventine: Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on whichRome stood. Bryant.
aventre: To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear. [Obs.] Spenser.
aventure: A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as bydrowning, or falling into the fire.
aventurine: A variety of translucent quartz, spangled throughout withscales of yellow mica. ~= feldspar, a variety of oligoclase withinternal firelike reflections due to the presence of minute crystals,probably of hematite; sunstone.
aver: A work horse, or working ox. [Obs. or Dial. Eng.]
average: That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by thework beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.
avercorn: A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses bytheir tenants or farmers. Kennet.
averment: A positive statement of facts; an allegation; an offer tojustify or prove what is alleged.
averpenny: Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.
averroism: The tenets of the Averroists.
averroist: One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared inItaly before the restoration of learning; so denominated fromAverroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher. He held thedoctrine of monopsychism.
averruncator: An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or ablade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.
aversation: A turning from with dislike; aversion. [Obs.or Archaic]Some men have a natural aversation to some vices or virtues, and anatural affection to others. Jer. Taylor.
averse: To turn away. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
averseness: The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.
avert: To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object;to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as, how canthe danger be averted "To avert his ire." Milton.When atheists and profane persons do hear of so many discordant andcontrary opinions in religion, it doth avert them from the church.Bacon.Till ardent prayer averts the public woe. Prior.
averted: Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended;unpropitious.Who scornful pass it with averted eye. Keble.
averter: One who, or that which, averts.
avertible: Capable of being averted; preventable.
avertiment: Advertisement. [Obs.]
aves: The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.
avesta: The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.
avestan: Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta. --n.
aviado: One who works a mine with means provided by another. [Sp. Amer.& Southwestern U. S.]
avian: Of or instrument to birds.
aviary: A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keepingbirds confined; a bird house.Lincolnshire may be termed the aviary of England. Fuller.
aviate: To fly, or navigate the air, in an aëroplane or heavier-than-air flying machine. [Colloq.]
aviation: The art or science of flying.
aviator: A woman aviator.
avicula: A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied tothe pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of thetypical species to a bird.
avicular: Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.
avicularia: See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, oftenhaving the shape of a bird's bill.
aviculture: Rearing and care of birds.
avid: Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy. "Avid of gold, yet greedierof renown." Southey.
avidious: Avid.
avidiously: Eagerly; greedily.
avidity: Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire;as, to eat with avidity.His books were received and read with avidity. Milward.
avie: Emulously. [Obs.]
aviette: A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power isfurnished solely by the aviator.
avifauna: The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.
avigato: See Avocado.
avignon berry: The fruit of the Rhamnus infectorius, eand of other species ofthe same genus; -- so called from the city of Avignon, in France. Itis used by dyers and painters for coloring yellow. Called also Frenchberry.
avile: To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate. [Obs.]Want makes us know the price of what we avile. B. Jonson.
avis: Advice; opinion; deliberation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
avise: To consider; to reflect. [Obs.]
aviseful: Watchful; circumspect. [Obs.]With sharp, aviseful eye. Spenser.
avisely: Advisedly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
avisement: Advisement; observation; deliberation. [Obs.]
avision: Vision. [Obs.] Chaucer.
avocado: The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropicalAmerica. It is about the size and shape of a large pear; -- calledalso avocado pear, alligator pear, midshipman's butter.
avocat: An advocate.
avocate: To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to anothertribunal. [Obs. or Archaic]One who avocateth his mind from other occupations. Barrow.He, at last, . . . avocated the cause to Rome. Robertson.
avocation: Pursuits; duties; affairs which occupy one's time; usualemployment; vocation.There are professions, among the men, no more favorable to thesestudies than the common avocations of women. Richardson.In a few hours, above thirty thousand men left his standard, andreturned to their ordinary avocations. Macaulay.An irregularity and instability of purpose, which makes them choosethe wandering avocations of a shepherd, rather than the more fixedpursuits of agriculture. Buckle.
avocative: Calling off. [Obs.]
avoid: To defeat or evade; to invalidate. Thus, in a replication, theplaintiff may deny the defendant's plea, or confess it, and avoid itby stating new matter. Blackstone.
avoidless: Unavoidable; inevitable.
avoke: To call from or back again. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
avolate: To fly away; to escape; to exhale. [Obs.]
avolation: The act of flying; flight; evaporation. [Obs.]
avoset: Same as Avocet.
avouch: Evidence; declaration. [Obs.]The sensible and true avouch Of mine own eyes. Shak.
avouchable: Capable of being avouched.
avoucher: One who avouches.
avouchment: The act of avouching; positive declaration. [Obs.] Milton.
avoutrer: See Advoutrer. [Obs.]
avoutrie: Adultery. [Obs.] Chaucer.
avow: To acknowledge and justify, as an act done. See Avowry.Blackstone.
avowable: Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, withconfidence. Donne.
avowal: An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal ofsuch principles. Hume.
avowant: The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods,and justifies the taking. Cowell.
avowed: Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted.-- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv.
avowee: The person who has a right to present to a benefice; thepatron; an advowee. See Advowson.
avower: One who avows or asserts.
avowtry: Adultery. See Advoutry.
avoyer: A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton ofSwitzerland. [Obs.]
avulse: To pluck or pull off. Shenstone.
avulsion: The sudden removal of lands or soil from the estate of one manto that of another by an inundation or a current, or by a suddenchange in the course of a river by which a part of the estate of oneman is cut off and joined to the estate of another. The property inthe part thus separated, or cut off, continues in the original owner.Wharton. Burrill.
avuncular: Of or pertaining to an uncle.In these rare instances, the law of pedigree, whether direct oravuncular, gives way. I. Taylor.
await: A waiting for; ambush; watch; watching; heed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
awake: To cease to sleep; to come out of a state of natural sleep;and, figuratively, out of a state resembling sleep, as inaction ordeath.The national spirit again awoke. Freeman.Awake to righteousness, and sin not. 1 Cor. xv. 34.
awaken: To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake.[He] is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st. Cowper.Their consciences are thoroughly awakened. Tillotson.
awakener: One who, or that which, awakens.
awakening: Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousinginto activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakeningdiscourse; the awakening dawn.-- A*wak"en*ing*ly, adv.
awakenment: An awakening. [R.]
awanting: Missing; wanting. [Prov. Scot. & Eng.] Sir W. Hamilton.
award: To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign orapportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; toadjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.To review The wrongful sentence, and award a new. Dryden.
awarder: One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicialdetermination; a judge.
awarn: To warn. [Obs.] Spenser.
awash: Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip ofshore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface ofthe water, so that the waves break over it.
away-going: Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe untilafter its expiration; -- said of crops. Wharton.
awayward: Turned away; away. [Obs.] Chaucer.
awe: To strike with fear and reverence; to inspire with awe; tocontrol by inspiring dread.That same eye whose bend doth awe the world. Shak.His solemn and pathetic exhortation awed and melted the bystanders.Macaulay.
awe-stricken: Awe-struck.
awe-struck: Struck with awe. Milton.
awearied: Wearied. [Poetic]
aweary: Weary. [Poetic] "I begin to be aweary of thee." Shak.
aweather: On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction fromwhich the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather ! Totten.
aweigh: Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly;atrip; -- said of the anchor. Totten.
aweless: See Awless.
awesomeness: The quality of being awesome.
awhape: To confound; to terrify; to amaze. [Obs.] Spenser.
awhile: For a while; for some time; for a short time.
awing: On the wing; flying; fluttering. Wallace.
awk: Perversely; in the wrong way. L'Estrange.
awkward squad: A squad of inapt recruits assembled for special drill.
awl: A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather orwood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade isdifferently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the bradawl, saddler's awl, shoemaker's awl, etc.
awl-shaped: Subulate. See Subulate. Gray.
awlessness: The quality of being awless.
awlwort: A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.
awm: See Aam.
awn: The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or anysimilar bristlelike appendage; arista. Gray.
awned: Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.Gray.
awninged: Furnished with an awning.
awnless: Without awns or beard.
awny: Having awns; bearded.
awork: At work; in action. "Set awork." Shak.
aworking: At work; in action. [Archaic or Colloq.] Spenser.
awrong: Wrongly. Ford.
awsome: Same as Awesome.
ax: To ask; to inquire or inquire of.
axal: [See Axial.] [R.]
axial: Belonging to the axis of the body; as, the axial skeleton; orto the axis of any appendage or organ; as, the axial bones. Axialline (Magnetism), the line taken by the magnetic force in passingfrom one pole of a horseshoe magnet to the other. Faraday.
axially: In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial(magnetic) line.
axil: The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of abranch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which itsprings. Gray.
axile: Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies inthe axis of a seed. Gray.
axilla: The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm andshoulder.
axillar: Axillary.
axillary: Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland,artery, nerve.
axinite: A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found inglassy, brown crystals with acute edges.
axinomancy: A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.
axiom: A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whosetruth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstrationcan make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take forgranted; as, "The whole is greater than a part;" "A thing can not, atthe same time, be and not be."
axiomatically: By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.
axis: The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, whereit is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).
axle guard: The part of the framing of a railway car or truck, by which anaxle box is held laterally, and in which it may move vertically; --also called a jaw in the United States, and a housing in England.
axled: Having an axle; -- used in composition.Merlin's agate-axled car. T. Warton.
axman: One who wields an ax.
axminster: An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for itsthick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng.
axolotl: An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevatedlakes of Mexico; the siredon.
axstone: A variety of jade. It is used by some savages, particularly thenatives of the South Sea Islands, for making axes or hatchets.
axtree: Axle or axletree. [Obs.] Drayton.
axunge: Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.),lard prepared for medical use.
ay: Ah! alas! "Ay me! I fondly dream `Had ye been there.'" Milton.
ayah: A native nurse for children; also, a lady's maid. [India]
aye: An affirmative vote; one who votes in the affirmative; as, "Tocall for the ayes and noes;" "The ayes have it."
aye-aye: A singular nocturnal quadruped, allied to the lemurs, found inMadagascar (Cheiromys Madagascariensis), remarkable for its longfingers, sharp nails, and rodent-like incisor teeth.
ayegreen: The houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum). Halliwell.
ayenward: Backward. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ayle: A grandfather. [Obs.] Writ of Ayle, an ancient English writwhich lay against a stranger who had dispossessed the demandant ofland of which his grandfather died seized.
ayme: The utterance of the ejaculation "Ay me !" [Obs.] See Ay,interj. "Aymees and hearty heigh-hoes." J. Fletcher.
ayond: Beyond. [North of Eng.]
ayont: Beyond. [Scot.]
ayrshire: One of a superior breed of cattle from Ayrshire, Scotland.Ayrshires are notable for the quantity and quality of their milk.
ayuntamiento: In Spain and Spanish America, a corporation or body ofmagistrates in cities and towns, corresponding to mayor and aldermen.
azalea: A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China orof North America; false honeysuckle. The genus is scarcely distinctfrom Rhododendron.
azarole: The Neapolitan medlar (Cratægus azarolus), a shrub of southernEurope; also, its fruit.
azedarach: A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in thesouthern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride ofChina, and Bead tree.
azimuthal: Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.Azimuthal error of a transit instrument, its deviation in azimuthfrom the plane of the meridian.
azo-: A combining form of azote;(a) Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined,as in cyanides, nitrates, etc.(b) Now especially applied to compounds containing a two atomnitrogen group uniting two hydrocarbon radicals, as in azobenzene,azobenzoic, etc. These compounds furnish many artificial dyes. SeeDiazo-.
azobenzene: A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, formingorange red crystals which are easily fusible.
azogue: Lit.
azoic: Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animallife; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there wasno animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks. Azoic age (Geol.),the age preceding the existence of animal life, or anterior to thepaleozoic tome. Azoic is also used as a noun, age being understood.See Archæan, and Eozoic.
azole: Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five-membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least oneother noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur). The prefixes furo-,thio, and pyrro-are used to distinguish three subclasses of azoles,which may be regarded as derived respectively from furfuran,thiophene, and pyrrol by replacement of the CH group by nitrogen; as,furo-monazole. Names exactly analogous to those for the azines arealso used; as, oxazole, diazole, etc.
azoleic: Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitricacid. [R.]
azonic: Confined to no zone or region; not local.
azorian: Of or pertaining to the Azores.-- n.
azote: Same as Nitrogen. [R.]
azoted: Nitrogenized; nitrogenous.
azotic: Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting ofazote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid. [R.] Carpenter.
azotite: A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acidwith a base; a nitrite. [R.]
azotize: To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.
azotometer: An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion ofnitrogen; a nitrometer.
azoturia: Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine.
aztec: Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico thatinhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of theSpanish conquest in 1519.-- n.
azure: Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky;cerulean; also, cloudless. Azure stone (Min.), the lapis lazuli;also, the lazulite.
azured: Of an azure color; sky-blue. "The azured harebell." Shak.
azureous: Of a fine blue color; azure.
azurine: Azure.
azurite: Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.
azurn: Azure. [Obs.]Thick set with agate, and the azurn sheen Of turkis blue, and emeraldgreen. Milton.
azygous: Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, theazygous muscle of the uvula.
azymic: Azymous.
azymite: One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- aname of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.
azymous: Unleavened; unfermented. "Azymous bread." Dunglison.
b: is the second letter of the English alphabet. (See Guide toPronunciation, §§ 196,220.) It is etymologically related to p , v , f, w and m , letters representing sounds having a close organicaffinity to its own sound; as in Eng. bursar and purser; Eng. bearand Lat. pear; Eng. silver and Ger. silber; Lat. cubitum and It.gomito; Eng. seven, Anglo-Saxon seofon, Ger. sieben, Lat. septem,Gr.ptan. The form of letter B is Roman, from Greek B (Beta), ofSemitic origin. The small b was formed by gradual change from thecapital B.
ba: To kiss. [Obs.] Chaucer.
baa: To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.He treble baas for help, but none can get. Sir P. Sidney.
baaing: The bleating of a sheep. Marryat.
baal: The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitishnations.
baalism: Worship of Baal; idolatry.
bab: Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, andtaken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him.
baba: A kind of plum cake.
babbitt: To line with Babbitt metal.
babbitt metal: A soft white alloy of variable composition (as a nine parts oftin to one of copper, or of fifty parts of tin to five of antimonyand one of copper) used in bearings to diminish friction.
babblement: Babble. Hawthorne.
babbler: A name given to any one of family (Timalinæ) of thrushlikebirds, having a chattering note.
babblery: Babble. [Obs.] Sir T. More
babehood: Babyhood. [R.] Udall.
babery: Finery of a kind to please a child. [Obs.] "Painted babery."Sir P. Sidney.
babillard: The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babblingwarbler.
babingtonite: A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxenein angle, and of a greenish black color. It is a silicate of iron,manganese, and lime.
babish: Like a babe; a childish; babyish. [R.] "Babish imbecility."Drayton.-- Bab"ish*ly, adv.-- Bab"ish*ness, n. [R.]
babism: The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated inPersia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish andParsee elements.
babist: A believer in Babism.
bablah: The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia;neb-neb. It contains gallic acid and tannin, and is used for dyeingdrab.
baboon: One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus andPapio; the dog-faced ape. Baboons have dog-like muzzles and largecanine teeth, cheek pouches, a short tail, and naked callosities onthe buttocks. They are mostly African. See Mandrill, and Chacma, andDrill an ape.
baboonery: Baboonish behavior. Marryat.
baboonish: Like a baboon.
baby: An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.
baby farm: A place where the nourishment and care of babies are offeredfor hire.
baby farmer: One who keeps a baby farm.
baby farming: The business of keeping a baby farm.
baby jumper: A hoop suspended by an elastic strap, in which a young childmay be held secure while amusing itself by jumping on the floor.
babyhood: The state or period of infancy.
babyhouse: A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture. Swift.
babyish: Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple.-- Ba"by*ish*ly, adv.-- Ba"by*ish*ness, n.
babylonian: Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or tothe ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.
babylonish: See Babyroussa.
babyship: The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.
baccalaureate: Pertaining to a bachelor of arts. Baccalaureate sermon, in someAmerican colleges, a sermon delivered as a farewell discourse to agraduating class.
baccate: Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits. Gray.
bacchanal: The festival of Bacchus; the bacchanalia.
bacchanalia: A feast or an orgy in honor of Bacchus.
bacchanalian: Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to orgiven to reveling and drunkenness.Even bacchanalian madness has its charms. Cowper.
bacchanalianism: The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.
bacchant: Bacchanalian; fond of drunken revelry; wine-loving; reveling;carousing. Byron.
bacchantic: Bacchanalian.
bacchius: A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones;according to some, two long and a short.
bacchus: The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.
bacciferous: Producing berries. " Bacciferous trees." Ray.
bacciform: Having the form of a berry.
baccivorous: Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.
bace: See Base. [Obs.] Spenser.
bachelor: A kind of bass, an edible fresh-water fish (Pomoxys annularis)of the southern United States.
bachelordom: The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.
bachelorhood: The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.
bachelorism: Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging tobachelors. W. Irving.
bachelorship: The state of being a bachelor.
bachelry: The body of young aspirants for knighthood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bacillar: Shaped like a rod or staff.
bacillariae: See Diatom.
bacillary: Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.
bacilliform: Rod-shaped.
bacillus: A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetableorganism.
back: The keel and keelson of a ship.
back door: A door in the back part of a building; hence, an indirect way.Atterbury.
back stairs: Stairs in the back part of a house, as distinguished from thefront stairs; hence, a private or indirect way.
back-fire: To have or experience a back fire or back fires; -- said of aninternal-combustion engine.
backarack: See Bacharach.
backare: Same as Baccare.
backband: The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up theshafts of a carriage.
backbite: To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly orspitefully (as absent person); to slander or speak evil of (oneabsent). Spenser.
backbiter: One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.
backbiting: Secret slander; detraction.Backbiting, and bearing of false witness. Piers Plowman.
backbond: An instrument which, in conjunction with another making anabsolute disposition, constitutes a trust.
backboned: Vertebrate.
backcast: Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure inan effort or enterprise; a reverse. [Scot.]
backdoor: Acting from behind and in concealment; as backdoor intrigues.
backdown: A receding or giving up; a complete surrender. [Colloq.]
backed: Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype orstereotype plate. Used in composition; as, broad- backed; hump-backed.
backer: One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs aperson or thing in a contest.
backfall: A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.
backfriend: A secret enemy. [Obs.] South.
backgammon: A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board"marked off into twenty-four spaces called "points". Each player hasfifteen pieces, or "men", the movements of which from point to pointare determined by throwing dice. Formerly called tables. Backgammonboard , a board for playing backgammon, often made in the form of tworectangular trays hinged together, each tray containing two "tables".
background: The space which is behind and subordinate to a portrait orgroup of figures.
backhand: A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of theletters is from left to right.
backhandedness: State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirectmethods.
backhander: A backhanded blow.
backheel: A method of tripping by getting the leg back of the opponent'sheel on the outside and pulling forward while pushing his body back;a throw made in this way. -- v. t.
backhouse: A building behind the main building. Specifically
backing: The preparation of the back of a book with glue, etc., beforeputting on the cover.
backjoint: A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slabor other filling.
backlash: The distance through which one part of connected machinery, asa wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connectedparts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also, thejarring or reflex motion caused in badly fitting machinery byirregularities in velocity or a reverse of motion.
backless: Without a back.
backlog: A large stick of wood, forming the of a fire on the hearth.[U.S.]There was first a backlog, from fifteen to four and twenty inches indiameter and five feet long, imbedded in the ashes. S. G. Goodrich.
backs: Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.
backsaw: A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an addedmetallic back.
backset: To plow again, in the fall; -- said of prairie land broken upin the spring. [Western U.S.]
backsettler: One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.The English backsettlers of Leinster and Munster. Macaulay.
backside: The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.
backsight: The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged positionwhen the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; asight directed backwards to a station previously occupied. Cf.Foresight, n., 3.
backslide: To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually thefaith and practice of a religion that has been professed.
backslider: One who backslides.
backsliding: Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.Turn, O backsliding children, saith the Lord. Jer. iii. 14.
backstaff: An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of theheavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; --so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.
backstay: A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of aship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting themast. [ Often used in the plural.]
backster: A backer. [Obs.]
backstitch: A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the laststitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.
backstress: A female baker. [Obs.]
backward: The state behind or past. [Obs.]In the dark backward and abysm of time. Shak.
backwardation: The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, withthe consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; --also, the premium so paid. See Contango. Biddle.
backwardness: The state of being backward.
backwash: To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.
backwoods: The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.
backwoodsman: A men living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements,especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of theUnited States. Fisher Ames.
backworm: A disease of hawks. See Filanders. Wright.
bacon: The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, theflesh of a pig salted or fresh. Bacon beetle (Zoöl.), a beetle(Dermestes lardarius) which, especially in the larval state, feedsupon bacon, woolens, furs, etc. See Dermestes.-- To save one's bacon, to save one's self or property from harm orless. [Colloq.]
baconian: Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.Baconian method, the inductive method. See Induction.
bacteria: See Bacterium.
bacterial: Of or pertaining to bacteria.
bactericidal: Destructive of bacteria.
bactericide: Same as Germicide.
bacterin: A bacterial vaccine.
bacteriological: Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.
bacteriologist: One skilled in bacteriology.
bacteriology: The science relating to bacteria.
bacterioscopic: Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.
bacterioscopist: One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.
bacterioscopy: The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detectionand identification, as in the examination of polluted water.
bacterium: A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algæ,usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found inputrefying organic infusions. Bacteria are destitute of chlorophyll,and are the smallest of microscopic organisms. They are very widelydiffused in nature, and multiply with marvelous rapidity, both byfission and by spores. Certain species are active agents infermentation, while others appear to be the cause of certaininfectious diseases. See Bacillus.
bactrian: Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia.-- n.
bacule: See Bascule.
baculine: Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.
baculite: A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil inthe Cretaceous rocks. It is like an uncoiled ammonite.
baculometry: Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.
bad: of Bid. Bade. [Obs.] Dryden.
bad lands: Barren regions, especially in the western United States, wherehorizontal strata (Tertiary deposits) have been often eroded intofantastic forms, and much intersected by canons, and where lack ofwood, water, and forage increases the difficulty of traversing thecountry, whence the name, first given by the Canadian French,Mauvaises Terres (bad lands).
badaud: A person given to idle observation of everything, with wonderor astonishment; a credulous or gossipy idler.
badder: compar. of Bad, a. [Obs.] Chaucer.
badderlocks: A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten inEurope; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.
baddish: Somewhat bad; inferior. Jeffrey.
bade: A form of the pat tense of Bid.
badge: A carved ornament on the stern of a vessel, containing a windowor the representation of one.
badgeless: Having no badge. Bp. Hall.
badger: An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; ahawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who boughtgrain in one place and sold it in another. [Now dialectic, Eng.]
badger game: The method of blackmailing by decoying a person into acompromising situation and extorting money by threats of exposure.[Cant]
badger state: Wisconsin; -- a nickname.
badger-legged: Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought tohave. Shak.
badiaga: A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north ofEurope, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks ofbruises.
badian: An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illiciumanisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.
badigeon: A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdustand glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood orstone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.
badinage: Playful raillery; banter. "He . . . indulged himself only in anelegant badinage." Warburton.
badly: In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly;unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably;seriously.
badness: The state of being bad.
baenomere: One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax ofArthropods. Packard.
baenopod: One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.
baenosome: The thorax of Arthropods. Packard.
baetulus: A meteorite, or similar rude stone artificially shaped, heldsacred or worshiped as of divine origin.
baff: A blow; a stroke. [Scot.] H. Miller.
baffle: A defeat by artifice, shifts, and turns; discomfiture. [R.] "Abaffle to philosophy." South.
bafflement: The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled;frustration; check.
baffler: One who, or that which, baffles.
baffling: Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, bafflingcurrents, winds, tasks.-- Bafflingly, adv.-- Bafflingness, n.
baffy: A short wooden club having a deeply concave face, seldom used.
baft: Same as Bafta.
bafta: A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India.Also, an imitation of this fabric made for export.
bag: A certain quantity of a commodity, such as it is customary tocarry to market in a sack; as, a bag of pepper or hops; a bag ofcoffee. Bag and baggage, all that belongs to one.-- To give one the bag, to disappoint him. [Obs.] Bunyan.
bag net: A bag-shaped net for catching fish.
bagasse: Sugar cane, as it
baggage master: One who has charge of the baggage at a railway station or upona line of public travel. [U.S.]
baggager: One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower. [Obs.] Sir W.Raleigh.
baggala: A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in IndianOcean.
baggily: In a loose, baggy way.
bagging: Reaping peas, beans, wheat, etc., with a chopping stroke.[Eng.]
baggy: Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag;flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.
bagman: A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders formanufacturers and tradesmen. Thackeray.
bagpipe: A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands ofScotland.
bagpiper: One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper. Shak.
bagreef: The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef oftopsails. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
bague: The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaftor clustered column into two or more parts.
bagwig: A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back ofthe head in a bag.
bagworm: One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in thelarval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection.One species (Platoeceticus Gloveri) feeds on the orange tree. SeeBasket worm.
bah: An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.Twenty-five years ago the vile ejaculation, Bah! was utterly unknownto the English public. De Quincey.
bahai: A member of the sect of the Babis consisting of the adherentsof Baha (Mirza Husain Ali, entitled "Baha 'u 'llah," or, "theSplendor of God"), the elder half brother of Mirza Yahya of Nur, whosucceeded the Bab as the head of the Babists. Baha in 1863 declaredhimself the supreme prophet of the sect, and became its recognizedhead. There are upwards of 20,000 Bahais in the United States.
bahaism: The religious tenets or practices of the Bahais.
bahar: A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varyingconsiderably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625pounds.
baigne: To soak or drench. [Obs.]
baignoire: A box of the lowest tier in a theater.  Du Maurier.
bail: A bucket or scoop used in bailing water out of a boat. [Obs.]The bail of a canoe . . . made of a human skull. Capt. Cook.
bailee: The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has atemporary possession and a qualified property in them, for thepurposes of the trust. Blackstone.
bailer: See Bailor.
bailie: An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded tothat of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.
bailiff: A sheriff's deputy, appointed to make arrests, collect fines,summon juries, etc.
bailiffwick: See Bailiwick. [Obs.]
bailiwick: The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; thelimits of a bailiff's authority.
bailment: The action of bailing a person accused.Bailment . . . is the saving or delivery of a man out of prisonbefore he hath satisfied the law. Dalton.
bailor: One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.
bailpiece: A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance orbail bond.
bain: A bath; a bagnio. [Obs.] Holland.
bain-marie: A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may beheated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming orpreparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.
bairam: The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held atthe close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy daysafter the fast.
bairn: A child. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]Has he not well provided for the bairn ! Beau. & Fl.
baisemains: Respects; compliments. [Obs.]
bait: To stop to take a portion of food and drink for refreshment ofone's self or one's beasts, on a journey.Evil news rides post, while good news baits. Milton.My lord's coach conveyed me to Bury, and thence baiting aEvelyn.
baiter: One who baits; a tormentor.
baize: A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plaincolors.A new black baize waistcoat lined with silk. Pepys.
bajocco: A small cooper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worthabout a cent and a half.
bake: The process, or result, of baking.
bakehouse: A house for baking; a bakery.
baken: p. p. of Bake. [Obs. or. Archaic]
baker-legged: Having legs that bend inward at the knees.
bakingly: In a hot or baking manner.
bakistre: A baker. [Obs.] Chaucer.
balaam: A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out anewspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's assspeaking. Numb. xxii. 30. [Cant] Balaam basket or box (Print.), thereceptacle for rejected articles. Blackw. Mag.
balachong: A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up withsalt and spices, and then dried. It is much esteemed in China.
balaenoidea: A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and allother whales having the mouth fringed with baleen. See Baleen.
balance: A balance wheel, as of a watch, or clock. See Balance wheel (inthe Vocabulary).
balance wheel: A wheel which imparts regularity to the movements of any engineor machine; a fly wheel.
balanceable: Such as can be balanced.
balancement: The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; evenadjustment of forces. [R.] Darwin.
balancer: In Diptera, the rudimentary posterior wing.
balancereef: The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.
balaniferous: Bearing or producing acorns.
balanite: A fossil balanoid shell.
balanoglossus: A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.
balanoid: Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles havingshells shaped like acorns. See Acornshell, and Barnacle.
balas ruby: A variety of spinel ruby, of a pale rose red, or inclining toorange. See Spinel.
balata: A West Indian sapotaceous tree (Bumelia retusa).
balaustine: The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum). The bark of the root,the rind of the fruit, and the flowers are used medicinally.
balayeuse: A protecting ruffle or frill, as of silk or lace, sewed closeto the lower edge of a skirt on the inside.
balbuties: The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incompletepronunciation.
balcon: A balcony. [Obs.] Pepys.
balconied: Having balconies.
balcony: A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usuallyresting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, abalcony in front of a window. Also, a projecting gallery in places ofamusement; as, the balcony in a theater.
bald: Destitute of a beard or awn; as, bald wheat.
bald eagle: The white-headed eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus) of America.The young, until several years old, lack the white feathers on thehead.
bald-faced: Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.
baldachin: A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported bycolumns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from thewall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St.Peter's.
balder: The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace;the son of Odin and Freya. [Written also Baldur.]
balderdash: To mix or adulterate, as liquors.The wine merchants of Nice brew and balderdash, and even mix it withpigeon's dung and quicklime. Smollett.
baldhead: A white-headed variety of pigeon.
baldheaded: Having a bald head.
baldly: Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.
baldness: The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head;baldness of style.This gives to their syntax a peculiar character of simplicity andbaldness. W. D. Whitney.
baldpate: The American widgeon (Anas Americana).
baldrib: A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destituteof fat. [Eng.] Southey.
baldric: A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over oneshoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; lessproperly, any belt. [Also spelt bawdrick.]A radiant baldric o'er his shoulder tied Sustained the sword thatglittered at his side. Pope.
baldwin: A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple. [U.S.]
bale: A bundle or package of goods in a cloth cover, and corded forstorage or transportation; also, a bundle of straw Bale of dice, apair of dice. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
balearic: Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc.,in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia. Balearic crane.(Zoöl.) See Crane.
baleen: Plates or blades of "whalebone," from two to twelve feet long,and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balænoidea) areattached side by side along the upper jaw, and form a fringelikesieve by which the food is retained in the mouth.
balefire: A signal fire; an alarm fire.Sweet Teviot! on thy silver tide The glaring balefires blaze no more.Sir W. Scott.
balefully: In a baleful manner; perniciously.
balefulness: The quality or state of being baleful.
balisaur: A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).
balister: A crossbow. [Obs.] Blount.
balistoid: Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidæ. SeeFilefish.
balistraria: A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows mightbe discharged.
balize: A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.
balk: One of the beams connecting the successive supports of atrestle bridge or bateau bridge.
balker: One who, or that which balks.
balkingly: In manner to balk or frustrate.
balkish: Uneven; ridgy. [R.] Holinshed.
balky: Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.
ball: A flaming, roundish body shot into the air; a case filled withcombustibles intended to burst and give light or set fire, or toproduce smoke or stench; as, a fire ball; a stink ball.
ball-flower: An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, thepetals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollowmolding.
ballad: A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation orsinging; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental orromantic poem in short stanzas.
ballad monger: A seller or maker of ballads; a poetaster. Shak.
ballade: A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English,in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight orten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the wholepoem with an envoy.
ballader: A writer of ballads.
balladry: Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads. "Base balladryis so beloved." Drayton.
ballarag: To bully; to threaten. [Low] T. Warton.
ballast: Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold tosink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.
ballastage: A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port orharbor.
ballasting: That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.
ballatry: See Balladry. [Obs.] Milton.
ballet: A light part song, or madrigal, with a fa la burden or chorus,-- most common with the Elizabethan madrigal composers.
ballista: An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used forhurling large missiles.
ballister: A crossbow. [Obs.]
ballistics: The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of anengine. Whewell.
ballistite: A smokeless powder containing equal parts of solublenitrocellulose and nitroglycerin.
ballium: See Bailey.
balloon: A ball or globe on the top of a pillar, church, etc., as at St.Paul's, in London. [R.]
balloon fish: A fish of the genus Diodon or the genus Tetraodon, having thepower of distending its body by taking air or water into itsdilatable esophagus. See Globefish, and Bur fish.
ballooned: Swelled out like a balloon.
ballooner: One who goes up in a balloon; an aëronaut.
ballooning: The process of temporarily raising the value of a stock, as byfictitious sales. [U.S.]
ballooning spider: A spider which has the habit of rising into the air. Many kinds( esp. species of Lycosa) do this while young by ejecting threads ofsilk until the force of the wind upon them carries the spider aloft.
balloonist: An aëronaut.
balloonry: The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aëronautics.
ballot: To vote or decide by ballot; as, to ballot for a candidate.
ballotade: A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straightline, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only theshoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.
ballotage: In France, a second ballot taken after an indecisive firstballot to decide between two or several candidates.
ballotation: Voting by ballot. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
balloter: One who votes by ballot.
ballotin: An officer who has charge of a ballot box. [Obs.] Harrington.
ballow: A cudgel. [Obs.] Shak.
ballproof: Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.
ballroom: A room for balls or dancing.
balm: An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.
balmify: To render balmy. [Obs.] Cheyne.
balmily: In a balmy manner. Coleridge.
balneal: Of or pertaining to a bath. Howell.
balneary: A bathing room. Sir T. Browne.
balneation: The act of bathing. [R.]
balneatory: Belonging to a bath. [Obs.]
balneography: A description of baths.
balneology: A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.
balneotherapy: The treatment of disease by baths.
balopticon: See Projector, below.
balotade: See Ballotade.
balsa: A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of SouthAmerica.
balsam: To treat or anoint with balsam; to relieve, as with balsam; torender balsamic.
balsamation: Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling,balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.
balsamiferous: Producing balsam.
balsamine: The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.
balsamous: Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam. "A balsamoussubstance." Sterne.
balter: To stick together.[Obs.] Holland.
baltic: Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Swedenfrom Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.
baluster: A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an openparapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,or the eaves of a building.
balustered: Having balusters.  Dryden.
balustrade: A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an openparapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase,or the eaves of a building.
bam: An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. Garrick.To relieve the tediumbams. Prof. Wilson.
bambino: A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infantChrist wrapped in swaddling clothes.
bambocciade: A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rusticlife.
bamboo: A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing intropical countries.
bamboozle: To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; tohoax; to mystify; to humbug. [Colloq.] Addison.What oriental tomfoolery is bamboozling you J. H. Newman.
bamboozler: A swindler; one who deceives by trickery. [Colloq.] Arbuthnot.
ban: A calling together of the king's (esp. the French king's)vassals for military service; also, the body of vassals thusassembled or summoned. In present usage, in France and Prussia, themost effective part of the population liable to military duty and notin the standing army.
banal: Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.
banality: Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace,in speech.The highest things were thus brought down to the banalities ofdiscourse. J. Morley.
banana: A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musasapientum); also, its edible fruit. See Musa.
banana solution: A solution used as a vehicle in applying bronze pigments. Inaddition to acetote, benzine, and a little pyroxylin, it containsamyl acetate, which gives it the odor of bananas.
banat: The territory governed by a ban.
bancal: An ornamental covering, as of carpet or leather, for a bench orform.
banco: A bank, especially that of Venice.
band: Two strips of linen hanging from the neck in front as part of aclerical, legal, or academic dress.
band fish: A small red fish of the genus Cepola; the ribbon fish.
bandage: To bind, dress, or cover, with a bandage; as, to bandage theeyes.
bandala: A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of theabaca (Musa textilis).
bandbox: A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical,for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps,bonnets, etc.
bandeau: A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.Around the edge of this cap was a stiff bandeau of leather. Sir W.Scott.
bander: One banded with others. [R.]
banderilla: A barbed dart carrying a banderole which the banderillerothrusts into the neck or shoulder of the bull in a bullfight.
banderillero: One who thrusts in the banderillas in bullfighting.  W. D.Howells.
banding plane: A plane used for cutting out grooves and inlaying strings andbands in straight and circular work.
bandit: An outlaw; a brigand.No savage fierce, bandit, or mountaineer. Milton.
bandle: An Irish measure of two feet in length.
bandlet: Same as Bandelet.
bandmaster: The conductor of a musical band.
bandog: A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chainedor tied up.The keeper entered leading his bandog, a large bloodhound, tied in aleam, or band, from which he takes his name. Sir W. Scott.
bandoline: A glutinous pomatum for the fair.
bandon: Disposal; control; license. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
bandore: A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; apandore.
bandrol: Same as Banderole.
bandy: A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.
bandy-legged: Having crooked legs.
bane: To be the bane of; to ruin. [Obs.] Fuller.
baneberry: A genus (Actæa) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceæ, native inthe north temperate zone. The red or white berries are poisonous.
baneful: Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious;noxious; pernicious. "Baneful hemlock." Garth. "Baneful wrath."Chapman.-- Bane"ful*ly, adv. --Bane"ful*ness, n.
banewort: Deadly nightshade.
bang: To make a loud noise, as if with a blow or succession of blows;as, the window blind banged and waked me; he was banging on thepiano.
banging: Huge; great in size. [Colloq.] Forby.
bangle: To waste by little and little; to fritter away. [Obs.]
banian: The Indian fig. See Banyan. Banian days (Naut.), days in whichthe sailors have no flesh meat served out to them. This use seems tobe borrowed from the Banians or Banya race, who eat no flesh.
banisher: One who banishes.
banishment: The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.He secured himself by the banishment of his enemies. Johnson.Round the wide world in banishment we roam. Dryden.
banister: A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like theguitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and isplayed with the fingers and hands.
banjo: A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like theguitar, and its body like a tambourine. It has five strings, and isplayed with the fingers and hands.
banjorine: A kind of banjo, with a short neck, tuned a fourth higher thanthe common banjo; -- popularly so called.
bank: A sort of table used by printers.
bank book: A book kept by a depositor, in which an officer of a bankenters the debits and credits of the depositor's account with thebank.
bank discount: A sum equal to the interest at a given rate on the principal(face) of a bill or note from the time of discounting until itbecomes due.
bank swallow: See under 1st Bank, n.
bank-sided: Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall-sided.
bankable: Receivable at a bank.
bankeress: A female banker. Thackeray.
banking: The business of a bank or of a banker. Banking house, anestablishment or office in which, or a firm by whom, banking is done.
bankrupt: A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other actstending to defraud his creditors. Blackstone.
bankside: The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.
banlieue: The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits,of a town or city. Brande & C.
bannered: Decorated with a banner or banners "bannered host." Milton.
bannerol: A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral processionand set over the tomb. See Banderole.
bannition: The act of expulsion.[Obs.] Abp. Laud.
bannock: A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonlymade of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, orgriddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.Jamieson. Bannock fluke, the turbot. [Scot.]
banns: Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or otherplace prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if heknows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.
banquet: To treat with a banquet or sumptuous entertainment of food; tofeast.Just in time to banquet The illustrious company assembled there.Coleridge.
banquette: A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of aparapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.
banstickle: A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.
bantam: A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probablybrought from Bantam, a district of Java.
bantam work: Carved and painted work in imitation of Japan ware.
banteng: The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).
banter: The act of bantering; joking or jesting; humorous or good-humored raillery; pleasantry.Part banter, part affection. Tennyson.
banterer: One who banters or rallies.
bantingism: A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containingmuch farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called fromWilliam Banting of London.
bantling: A young or small child; an infant. [Slightly contemptuous ordepreciatory.]In what out of the way corners genius produces her bantlings. W.Irving.
bantu: A member of one of the great family of Negroid tribes occupyingequatorial and southern Africa. These tribes include, as importantdivisions, the Kafirs, Damaras, Bechuanas, and many tribes whosenames begin with Aba-, Ama-, Ba-, Ma-, Wa-, variants of the Bantuplural personal prefix Aba-, as in Ba-ntu, or Aba-ntu, itself acombination of this prefix with the syllable -ntu, a person. --Ban"tu, a.
banxring: An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.
banyan: A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called theIndian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground,which take root and become additional trunks, until it may be thetree covers some acres of ground and is able to shelter thousands ofmen.
banzai: Lit., May you live ten thousand years; -- used in salutation ofthe emperor and as a battle cry. [Japan]
baobab: A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalizedin India. See Adansonia.
baphomet: An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused ofusing in their mysterious rites.
baptism: The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, asa sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into thevisible church of Christ. This is performed by immersion, sprinkling,or pouring.
baptismal: Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows. Baptismal name, theChristian name, which is given at baptism.
baptismally: In a baptismal manner.
baptistic: Of or for baptism; baptismal.
baptistical: Baptistic. [R.]
baptizable: Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized. Baxter.
baptization: Baptism. [Obs.]Their baptizations were null. Jer. Taylor.
baptizement: The act of baptizing.[R.]
baptizer: One who baptizes.
bar: An ordinary, like a fess but narrower, occupying only one fifthpart of the field.
bar iron: See under Iron.
baraca: An international, interdenominational organization of Bibleclasses of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew wordBerachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron.xii.
barad: The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as aunit of pressure.
barathea: A soft fabric with a kind of basket weave and a diaperedpattern.
barb: Paps, or little projections, of the mucous membrane, which markthe opening of the submaxillary glands under the tongue in horses andcattle. The name is mostly applied when the barbs are inflamed andswollen. [Written also barbel and barble.]
barbacan: See Barbican.
barbacanage: See Barbicanage.
barbadian: Of or pertaining to Barbados.-- n.
barbara: The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent thevarious forms of the syllogism. It indicates a syllogism whose threepropositions are universal affirmatives. Whately.
barbaresque: Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture. DeQuincey.
barbarian: Of, or pertaining to, or resembling, barbarians; rude;uncivilized; barbarous; as, barbarian governments or nations.
barbarity: The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.
barbarize: To make barbarous.The hideous changes which have barbarized France. Burke.
barbarously: In a barbarous manner.
barbarousness: The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism.
barbary: The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to theAtlantic. Hence
barbastel: A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips.
barbate: Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs.
barbated: Having barbed points.A dart uncommonly barbated. T. Warton.
barbed: Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded( which is the proper form.) Sir W. Raleigh.
barbel: A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.
barbellate: Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point. Gray.
barbellulate: Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs.
barber: One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and tocut and dress the hair of his patrons. Barber's itch. See under Itch.
barber fish: See Surgeon fish.
barbermonger: A fop. [Obs.]
barberry: A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and inneglected fields. B. vulgaris is the species best known; its oblongred berries are made into a preserve or sauce, and have been deemedefficacious in fluxes and fevers. The bark dyes a fine yellow, esp.the bark of the root. [Also spelt berberry.]
barbette: A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on whichguns are mounted to fire over the parapet. En barbette, In barbette,said of guns when they are elevated so as to fire over the top of aparapet, and not through embrasures.-- Barbette gun, or Barbette battery, a single gun, or a number ofguns, mounted in barbette, or partially protected by a parapet orturret.-- Barbette carriage, a gun carriage which elevates gunssufficiently to be in barbette. [See Illust. of Casemate.]
barbicel: One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules offeathers.
barbiers: A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabarcoast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronicform.
barbigerous: Having a beard; bearded; hairy.
barbiton: An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.
barbituric acid: A white, crystalline substance,
barble: See Barbel.
barbotine: A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief.
barbre: Barbarian. [Obs.] Chaucer.
barbule: One of the processes along the edges of the barbs of a feather,by which adjacent barbs interlock. See Feather.
barcon: A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.
bard: Defensive armor formerly worn by a man at arms.
barded: Wearing rich caparisons.Fifteen hundred men . . . barded and richly trapped. Stow.
bardic: Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry. "The bardic lays ofancient Greece." G. P. Marsh.
bardiglio: An Italian marble of which the principal varieties occur in theneighborhood of Carrara and in Corsica. It commonly shows a dark grayor bluish ground traversed by veins.
bardish: Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards. "Bardishimpostures." Selden.
bardism: The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.
bardling: An inferior bard. J. Cunningham.
bardship: The state of being a bard.
bare: That part of a roofing slate, shingle, tile, or metal plate,which is exposed to the weather.
bareback: On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, toride bareback.
barebacked: Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse.
barebone: A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin.Shak.
barefacedly: Openly; shamelessly. Locke.
barefacedness: The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance;audaciousness.
barefoot: With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.
barefooted: Having the feet bare.
barege: A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted,silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted.
barehanded: Having bare hands.
barelegged: Having the legs bare.
barenecked: Having the neck bare.
bareness: The state of being bare.
baresark: A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, orshirt of mail. Hence, adverbially
barfish: Same as Calico bass.
barful: Full of obstructions. [Obs.] Shak.
bargain: To make a bargain; to make a contract for the exchange ofproperty or services; -- followed by with and for; as, to bargainwith a farmer for a cow.So worthless peasants bargain for their wives. Shak.
bargainee: The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, theproperty sold. Blackstone.
bargainer: One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense ofbargainor.
bargainor: One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., onewho sells, or contracts to sell, property to another. Blackstone.
bargeboard: A vergeboard.
bargecourse: A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principalrafters, in buildings where there is a gable. Gwilt.
bargee: A bargeman. [Eng.]
bargeman: The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.
bargemastter: The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of abarge.
barger: The manager of a barge. [Obs.]
barghest: A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune.[Also written barguest.]
baria: Baryta.
baric: Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide.
barilla: A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda ismade, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.
barillet: A little cask, or something resembling one. Smart.
barite: Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent,colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also ingranular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble. It hasa high specific gravity, and hence is often called heavy spar. It isa common mineral in metallic veins.
baritone: See Barytone.
barium: One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; ametal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very hightemperature. It is difficult to obtain the pure metal, from thefacility with which it becomes oxidized in the air. Atomic weight,137. Symbol, Ba. Its oxide called baryta. [Rarely written barytum.]
bark: The short, loud, explosive sound uttered by a dog; a similarsound made by some other animals.
bark beetle: A small beetle of many species (family Scolytidæ), which in thelarval state bores under or in the bark of trees, often doing greatdamage.
bark louse: An insect of the family Coccidæ, which infests the bark oftrees and vines.
barkantine: Same as Barkentine.
barkbound: Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close.
barkeeper: One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors.
barken: Made of bark. [Poetic] Whittier.
barkentine: A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, andthe others schooner-rigged. [Spelled also barquentine, barkantine,etc.] See Illust. in Append.
barker: The spotted redshank.
barkery: A tanhouse.
barkless: Destitute of bark.
barky: Covered with, or containing, bark. "The barky fingers of theelm." Shak.
barley: A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, usedfor food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, andwhisky. Barley bird (Zoöl.), the siskin.-- Barley sugar, sugar boiled till it is brittle (formerly with adecoction of barley) and candied.-- Barley water, a decoction of barley, used in medicine, as anutritive and demulcent.
barley-bree: Liquor made from barley; strong ale. [Humorous] [Scot.] Burns.
barm: Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting,and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast. Shak.
barmaid: A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in atavern or beershop.A bouncing barmaid. W. Irving.
barmaster: Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of thebarmote. [Eng.]
barmcloth: Apron. [Obs.] Chaucer.
barmecidal: Unreal; illusory. "A sort of Barmecidal feast." Hood.
barmecide: One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit. Also usedas an adj.
barmote: A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for decidingcontroversies between miners. Blount.
barmy: Full of barm or froth; in a ferment. "Barmy beer." Dryden.
barn: A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, andother productions of a farm. In the United States a part of the barnis often used for stables. Barn owl (Zoöl.), an owl of Europe andAmerica (Aluco flammeus, or Strix flammea), which frequents barns andother buildings.-- Barn swallow (Zoöl.), the common American swallow (Hirundohorreorum), which attaches its nest of mud to the beams and raftersof barns.
barnabite: A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas.
barnacle: Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber,ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies),and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies). SeeCirripedia, and Goose barnacle. Barnacle eater (Zoöl.), the orangefilefish.-- Barnacle scale (Zoöl.), a bark louse (Ceroplastescirripediformis) of the orange and quince trees in Florida. Thefemale scale curiously resembles a sessile barnacle in form.
barnburner: A member of the radical section of the Democratic party in NewYork, about the middle of the 19th century, which was hostile toextension of slavery, public debts, corporate privileges, etc., andsupported Van Buren against Cass for president in 1848; --opposed toHunker. [Political Cant, U. S.]
barnstormer: An itinerant theatrical player who plays in barns when atheatre is lacking; hence, an inferior actor, or one who plays in thecountry away from the larger cities. --Barn"storm`ing, n. [TheatricalCant]
barnyard: A yard belonging to a barn.
barocco: See Baroque.
barocyclonometer: An aneroid barometer for use with accompanying graphic diagramsand printed directions designed to aid mariners to interpret theindications of the barometer so as to determine the existence of aviolent storm at a distance of several hundred miles.
barogram: A tracing, usually made by the barograph, showing graphicallythe variations of atmospheric pressure for a given time.
barograph: An instrument for recording automatically the variations ofatmospheric pressure.
baroko: A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is auniversal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative.
barology: The science of weight or gravity.
baromacrometer: An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of anewborn infant.
barometer: An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of theatmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather,or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.
barometrically: By means of a barometer, or according to barometricobservations.
barometrograph: A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itselfupon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure.
barometry: The art or process of making barometrical measurements.
barometz: The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksoniabarometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhatresembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.
baron: A husband; as, baron and feme, husband and wife. [R.] Cowell.Baron of beef, two sirloins not cut asunder at the backbone.-- Barons of the Cinque Ports, formerly members of the House ofCommons, elected by the seven Cinque Ports, two for each port.-- Baron of the exchequer, the judges of the Court of Exchequer, oneof the three ancient courts of England, now abolished.
baroness: A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title inher own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.
baronet: A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above aknight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those ofthe Garter. It is the lowest degree of honor that is hereditary. Thebaronets are commoners.
baronetcy: The rank or patent of a baronet.
barong: A kind of cutting weapon with a thick back and thin razorlikeedge, used by the Moros of the Philippine Islands.
baronial: Pertaining to a baron or a barony. "Baronial tenure." Hallam.
baroque: In bad taste; grotesque; odd.
baroscope: Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of theatmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates -or foreshadows changes of the weather, as a deep vial of liquidholding in suspension some substance which rises and falls withatmospheric changes.
barothermograph: An instrument for recording both pressure and temperature, asof the atmosphere.
barouche: A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on theoutside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arrangedso that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.
barouchet: A kind of light barouche.
barpost: A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passageinto a field.
barque: Same as 3d Bark, n.
barracan: A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used forouter garments in the Levant.
barrack: A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison. Commonlyin the pl., originally meaning temporary huts, but now usuallyapplied to a permanent structure or set of buildings.He lodged in a miserable hut or barrack, composed of dry branches andthatched with straw. Gibbon.
barraclade: A home-made woolen blanket without nap. [Local, New York]Bartlett.
barracoon: A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quarteredtemporarily. Du Chaillu.
barrage: An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or watercourse to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.
barranca: A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse. [Texas & N.Mex.]
barras: A resin, called also galipot.
barrator: One guilty of barratry.
barratrous: Tainter with, or constituting, barratry.-- Bar"ra*trous*ly, adv. Kent.
barratry: The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels.[Also spelt barretry.] Coke. Blackstone.
barred owl: A large American owl (Syrnium nebulosum); -- so called from thetransverse bars of a dark brown color on the breast.
barrel: The hollow basal part of a feather. Barrel bulk (Com.), ameasure equal to five cubic feet, used in estimating capacity, as ofa vessel for freight.-- Barrel drain (Arch.), a drain in the form of a cylindrical tube.-- Barrel of a boiler, the cylindrical part of a boiler, containingthe flues.-- Barrel of the ear (Anat.), the tympanum, or tympanic cavity.-- Barrel organ, an instrument for producing music by the action ofa revolving cylinder.-- Barrel vault. See under Vault.
barrel process: A process of extracting gold or silver by treating the ore in arevolving barrel, or drum, with mercury, chlorine, cyanide solution,or other reagent.
barren: Elevated lands or plains on which grow small trees, but nottimber; as, pine barrens; oak barrens. They are not necessarilysterile, and are often fertile. [Amer.] J. Pickering.
barrenly: Unfruitfully; unproductively.
barrenness: The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.A total barrenness of invention. Dryden.
barrenwort: An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum),having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific.
barret: A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barretcap. Also, the flat cap worn by Roman Catholic ecclesiastics.
barretter: A thermal cymoscope which operates by increased resistance whensubjected to the influence of electric waves. The original formconsisted of an extremely fine platinum wire loop attached toterminals and inclosed in a small glass or silver bulb. In a latervariety, called the liquid barretter, wire is replace by a column ofliquid in a very fine capillary tube.
barricade: A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades,wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of anenemy. It is usually an obstruction formed in streets to block anenemy's access.
barricader: One who constructs barricades.
barricado: See Barricade. Shak.
barrier: A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in apassage in order to stop an enemy.
barrigudo: A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genusLagothrix, having a long prehensile tail.
barringout: The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against aschoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools. Swift.
barrio: In Spain and countries colonized by Spain, a village, ward, ordistrict outside a town or city to whose jurisdiction it belongs.
barrister: Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, andundertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from anattorney or solicitor. See Attorney. [Eng.]
barroom: A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold.
barrow: A wicker case, in which salt is put to drain.
barrowist: A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders ofIndependency or Congregationalism in England. Barrowe was executedfor nonconformity in 1953.
barrulet: A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width.
barruly: Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.
barry: , Divided into bars; -- said of the field.
barse: The common perch. See 1st Bass. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
bartender: A barkeeper.
barter: To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another,in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid forthe commodities transferred; to truck.
barterer: One who barters.
bartery: Barter. [Obs.] Camden.
barth: A place of shelter for cattle. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
bartholomew tide: Time of the festival of St. Bartholomew, August 24th. Shak.
bartizan: A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usuallyprojecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway.
bartlett: A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated inEngland about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchrétien. It wasbrought to America, and distributed by Mr. Enoch Bartlett, ofDorchester, Massachusetts.
bartram: See Bertram. Johnson.
barway: A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take outof the posts.
barwise: Horizontally.
barwood: A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angolaand the Gaboon in Africa. It is used as a dyewood, and also forramrods, violin bows and turner's work.
barycentric: Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentriccalculus, under Calculus.
baryphony: Difficulty of speech.
barysphere: The heavy interior portion of the earth, within thelithosphere.
baryta: An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specificgravity above 4.
barytes: Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. SeeBarite.
barytic: Of or pertaining to baryta.
baryto-calcite: A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive orcrystallized. It is a compound of the carbonates of barium andcalcium.
barytum: The metal barium. See Barium. [R.]
bas-relief: Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less thanhalf of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso-rilievo. See Alto-rilievo.
basal: Relating to, or forming, the base. Basal cleavage. See underCleavage.-- Basal plane (Crystallog.), one parallel to the lateral orhorizontal axis.
basal-nerved: Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves.
basalt: A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinicfeldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle-green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.
basaltic: Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; asbasaltic lava.
basaltiform: In the form of basalt; columnar.
basaltoid: Formed like basalt; basaltiform.
basan: Same as Basil, a sheepskin.
basanite: Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flintyslate, of a grayish or bluish black color. It is employed to test thepurity of gold, the amount of alloy being indicated by the color lefton the stone when rubbed by the metal.
basbleu: A bluestocking; a literary woman. [Somewhat derisive]
bascinet: A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.[Written also basinet, bassinet, basnet.]
bascule: In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, inwhich one end rises as the other falls. Bascule bridge, acounterpoise or balanced drawbridge, which is opened by sinking thecounterpoise and thus lifting the footway into the air.
base: Not held by honorable service; as, a base estate, one held byservices not honorable; held by villenage. Such a tenure is calledbase, or low, and the tenant, a base tenant. Base fee, formerly, anestate held at the will of the lord; now, a qualified fee. See noteunder Fee, n., 4.-- Base metal. See under Metal.
base viol: See Bass viol.
base-burner: A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopperor chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.
base-court: An inferior court of law, not of record.
baseboard: A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a roomand touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; --also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard.
based: Wearing, or protected by, bases. [Obs.] "Based in lawnyvelvet." E. Hall.
baselard: A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century.[Written also baslard.] Fairholt.
baseless: Without a base; having no foundation or support. "The baselessfabric of this vision." Shak.
basement: The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a partof that story, when treated as a distinct substructure. ( See Base,n., 3 (a).) Hence
baseness: The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness.I once did hold it a baseness to write fair. Shak.
basenet: See Bascinet. [Obs.]
bash: To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out ofcountenance. [Obs.]His countenance was bold and bashed not. Spenser.
bashaw: A very large siluroid fish (Leptops olivaris) of theMississippi valley; -- also called goujon, mud cat, and yellow cat.
bashfully: In a bashful manner.
bashfulness: The quality of being bashful.
bashi-bazouk: A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkisharmy.
bashless: Shameless; unblushing. [Obs.] Spenser.
bashyle: See Basyle.
basi-: A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words,to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base;as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones ofthe branchial arches; basicranial, situated at the base of thecranium; basifacial, basitemporal, etc.
basic: Said of crystalline rocks which contain a relatively lowpercentage of silica, as basalt. Basic salt (Chem.), a salt formedfrom a base or hydroxide by the partial replacement of its hydrogenby a negative or acid element or radical.
basic process: A Bessemer or open-hearth steel-making process in which alining that is basic, or not siliceous, is used, and additions ofbasic material are made to the molten charge during treatment.Opposed to acid process, above. Called also Thomas process.
basic slag: A by-product from the manufacture of steel by the basicprocess, used as a fertilizer. It is rich in lime and contains 14 to20 per cent of phosphoric acid. Called also Thomas slag, phosphaticslag, and odorless phosphate.
basic steel: Steel produced by the basic process.
basicerite: The second joint of the antennæ of crustaceans.
basidiomycetes: A large subdivision of fungi coördinate with the Ascomycetes,characterized by having the spores borne on a basidium. It embracesthose fungi best known to the public, such as mushrooms, toadstools,etc.
basidiospore: A spore borne by a basidium.-- Ba*sid`i*o*spor"ous (, a.
basidium: A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, whichbears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, ofwhich the common mushroom is an example.
basifier: That which converts into a salifiable base.
basifugal: Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugalgrowth.
basify: To convert into a salifiable base.
basigynium: The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as thepassion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore.
basihyal: Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoidarch.
basihyoid: The central tongue bone.
basil: The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as aplane, is ground. Grier.
basilic: Basilica.
basilica: Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartmentprovided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblieswere held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used forthis purpose.
basilican: Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical.There can be no doubt that the first churches in Constantinople werein the basilican form. Milman.
basilicok: The basilisk. [Obs.] Chaucer
basilicon: An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard,or other fatty substance.
basilisk: A lizard of the genus Basiliscus, belonging to the familyIguanidæ.
basin: An isolated or circumscribed formation, particularly where thestrata dip inward, on all sides, toward a center; -- especiallyapplied to the coal formations, called coal basins or coal fields.
basined: Inclosed in a basin. "Basined rivers." Young.
basinet: Same as Bascinet.
basioccipital: Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium,frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usuallydistinct in the young.-- n.
basion: The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of theskull.
basipodite: The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea.
basipterygium: A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of somefishes. It develops into the metapterygium.-- Ba*sip`ter*yg"i*al (, a.
basipterygoid: Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone.
basisolute: Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.
basisphenoid: The basisphenoid bone.
bask: To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.Basks in the glare, and stems the tepid wave. Goldsmith.
basket: The bell or vase of the Corinthian capital. [Improperly soused.] Gwilt.
basket ball: A game, usually played indoors, in which two parties of playerscontest with each other to toss a large inflated ball into oppositegoals resembling baskets.
basketful: As much as a basket will contain.
basketry: The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.
basking shark: One of the largest species of sharks (Cetorhinus maximus), socalled from its habit of basking in the sun; the liver shark, or boneshark. It inhabits the northern seas of Europe and America, and growsto a length of more than forty feet. It is a harmless species.
basnet: Same as Bascinet.
basommatophora: A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of thetentacles, including the common pond snails.
bason: A basin. [Obs. or Special form]
basque: Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language.
basquish: Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay;Basque [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
bass: ; pl. Bass, and sometimes Basses. Etym
bass drum: The largest of the different kinds of drums, having two heads,and emitting a deep, grave sound. See Bass, a.
bass horn: A modification of the bassoon, much deeper in tone.
bass viol: A stringed instrument of the viol family, used for playingbass. See 3d Bass, n., and Violoncello.
bass-relief: Some as Bas-relief.
basset: A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have beeninvented at Venice.Some dress, some dance, some play, not to forget Your piquet parties,and your dear basset. Rowe.
basset horn: An instrument blown with a reed, and resembling a clarinet, butof much greater compass, embracing nearly four octaves.
basset hound: A small kind of hound with a long body and short legs, used asan earth dog.
basseting: The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of astratum at the surface.
bassetto: A tenor or small bass viol.
bassock: A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.
bassoon: A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished withholes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes.It forms the natural bass to the oboe, clarinet, etc.
bassoonist: A performer on the bassoon. Busby.
bassorin: A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also ofgum tragacanth and some gum resins. It is one of the amyloses. Ure.
basswood: The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T. Americana. SeeBass, the lime tree.All the bowls were made of basswood, White and polished verysmoothly. Longfellow.
basta: Enough; stop. Shak.
bastard: Abbreviated, as the half title in a page preceding the fulltitle page of a book. Bastard ashlar (Arch.), stones for ashlar work,roughly squared at the quarry.-- Bastard file, a file intermediate between the coarsest and thesecond cut.-- Bastard type (Print.), type having the face of a larger or asmaller size than the body; e.g., a nonpareil face on a brevier body.-- Bastard wing (Zoöl.), three to five quill feathers on a smalljoint corresponding to the thumb in some mam malia; the alula.
bastardism: The state of being a bastard; bastardy.
bastardly: Bastardlike; baseborn; spuripous; corrupt. [Obs.] -- adv.
baste: To sprinkle flour and salt and drip butter or fat on, as onmeat in roasting.
bastinade: See Bastinado, n.
bastinado: To beat with a stick or cudgel, especially on the soles of thefeet.
bastion: A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of afortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and soconstructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacentcurtain, or wall which extends from one bastion to another. Twoadjacent bastions are connected by the curtain, which joins the flankof one with the adjacent flank of the other. The distance between theflanks of a bastion is called the gorge. A lunette is a detachedbastion. See Ravelin.
bastioned: Furnished with a bastion; having bastions.
basto: The ace of clubs in qua Pope.
baston: See Baton.
basutos: A warlike South African people of the Bantu stock, divided intomany tribes, subject to the English. They formerly practicedcannibalism, but have now adopted many European customs.
basyle: A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, eitherelementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.
basylous: Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro-positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous. Graham.
bat: Shale or bituminous shale. Kirwan.
bat printing: A mode of printing on glazed ware.
batable: Disputable. [Obs.]
batailled: Embattled. [Obs.] Chaucer.
batardeau: A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluicegate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides ofthe wall.
batavian: Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe;or to (b) as, a Batavian legion. Batavian Republic, the name given toHolland by the French after its conquest in 1795.
bate: Strife; contention. [Obs.] Shak.
bateau: A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadianlakes and rivers. [Written also, but less properly, batteau.] Bateaubridge, a floating bridge supported by bateaux.
bated: Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath.Macaulay.
bateful: Exciting contention; contentious. [Obs.] "It did batefulquestion frame. " Sidney.
bateless: Not to be abated. [Obs.] Shak.
batement: Abatement; diminution. Moxon. Batement light (Arch.), a windowor one division of a window having vertical sides, but with the sillnot horizontal, as where it follows the rake of a staircase.
batfish: A name given to several species of fishes
batfowler: One who practices or finds sport in batfowling.
batfowling: A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or otherlight, and beating the bush or perch where they roost. The birds,flying to the light, are caught with nets or otherwise.
batful: Rich; fertile. [Obs.] "Batful valleys." Drayton.
bath: A medium, as heated sand, ashes, steam, hot air, through whichheat is applied to a body.
bathe: The immersion of the body in water; as to take one's usualbathe. Edin. Rev.
bather: One who bathes.
bathetic: Having the character of bathos. [R.]
bathing: Act of taking a bath or baths. Bathing machine, a small room onwheels, to be driven into the water, for the convenience of bathers,who undress and dress therein.
bathmism: See Vital force.
bathometer: An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for takingsoundings without a sounding line.
bathorse: A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign.
bathos: A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing orspeech; anticlimax.
bathybius: A name given by Prof. Huxley to a gelatinous substance found inmud dredged from the Atlantic and preserved in alcohol. He supposedthat it was free living protoplasm, covering a large part of theocean bed. It is now known that the substance is of chemical, not oforganic, origin.
bathygraphic: Descriptive of the ocean depth; as, a bathygraphic chart.
bathymetry: The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea.
bating: With the exception of; excepting.We have little reason to think that they bring many ideas with them,bating some faint ideas of hunger and thirst. Locke.
batiste: Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also tocloth of similar texture made of cotton.
batlet: A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called alsobatler, batling staff, batting staff. Shak.
batman: A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality;in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only afourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds.Simmonds.
batoidei: The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates.
baton: An ordinary with its ends cut off, borne sinister as a mark ofbastardy, and containing one fourth in breadth of the bend sinister;-- called also bastard bar. See Bend sinister.
batoon: See Baton, and Baston.
batrachia: The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; theAnura. Sometimes the word is used in a wider sense as equivalent toAmphibia.
batrachian: Pertaining to the Batrachia.-- n.
batrachoid: Froglike. Specifically
batrachomyomachy: The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on theIliad, of uncertain authorship.
batrachophagous: Feeding on frogs. Quart. Rev.
batsman: The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc.
batta: Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officerserving in India. Whitworth.
battable: Capable of culti [Obs.] Burton.
battailant: Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike. Spenser.-- n.
battailous: Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike. [Obs.]"In battailous aspect." Milton.
battalion: A regiment, or two or more companies of a regiment, esp. whenassembled for drill or battle.
battel: A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel,under Wager.
batten: To grow fat; to grow fat in ease and luxury; to glut one'sself. Dryden.The pampered monarch lay battening in ease. Garth.Skeptics, with a taste for carrion, who batten on the hideous factsin history, -- persecutions, inquisitions. Emerson.
battening: Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall.
batter: To flatten (metal) by hammering, so as to compress it inwardlyand spread it outwardly.
batterer: One who, or that which, batters.
battering train: A train of artillery for siege operations.
battering-ram: 1. (Mil.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down thewalls of besieged places.
battery: The unlawful beating of another. It includes every willful,angry and violent, or negligent touching of another's person orclothes, or anything attached to his person or held by him.
battle: Fertile. See Battel, a. [Obs.]
battle range: The range within which the fire of small arms is verydestructive. With the magazine rifle, this is six hundred yards.
battle ship: An armor-plated man-of-war built of steel and heavily armed,generally having from ten thousand to fifteen thousand tonsdisplacement, and intended to be fit to meet the heaviest ships inline of battle.
battled: Embattled. [Poetic] Tennyson.
battledoor: A child's hornbook. [Obs.] Halliwell.
battlemented: Having battlements.A battlemented portal. Sir W. Scott.
battologist: One who battologizes.
battologize: To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate. Sir T. Herbert.
battology: A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing. Milton.
batton: See Batten, and Baton.
batture: An elevated river bed or sea bed.
battuta: The measuring of time by beating.
batty: Belonging to, or resembling, a bat. "Batty wings." Shak.
batule: A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batuleboard.
batz: A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly currentin some parts of Germany and Switzerland. It was worth about fourcents.
baubee: Same as Bawbee.
baubling: , a. See Bawbling. [Obs.]
baudekin: The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages,the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery
baudrick: A belt. See Baldric.
baume: Designating or conforming to either of the scales used by theFrench chemist Antoine Baumé in the graduation of his hydrometers; ofor relating to Baumé's scales or hydrometers. There are two Bauméhydrometers. One, which is used with liquids heavier than water,sinks to 0º in pure water, and to 15º in a 15 per cent salt solution;the other, for liquids lighter than water, sinks to 0º in a 10 percent salt solution and to 10º in pure water. In both cases thegraduation, based on the distance between these fundamental points,is continued along the stem as far as desired. Since all the degreeson a Baumé scale are thus equal in length, while those on a specific-gravity scale grow smaller as the density increases, there is nosimple relation between degrees Bé. and Sp. gr. However, readings onBaumés scale may be approximately reduced to specific gravities bythe following formulæ (x in each case being the reading on Baumé'sscale)
baunscheidtism: A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part witha stimulating fluid.
bavardage: Much talking; prattle; chatter.  Byron.
bavarian: Of or pertaining to Bavaria.-- n.
bavaroy: A kind of cloak or surtout. [Obs.] Johnson.Let the looped bavaroy the fop embrace. Gay.
bavian: A baboon.
bawbee: A halfpenny. [Spelt also baubee.] [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
bawble: A trinket. See Bauble.
bawbling: Insignificant; contemptible. [Obs.]
bawcock: A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment. [Obs.] "How now, mybawcock " Shak.
bawd: A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures womenfor a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; --usually applied to a woman.
bawdily: Obscenely; lewdly.
bawdiness: Obscenity; lewdness.
bawdrick: A belt. See Baldric.
bawdyhouse: A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel.
bawhorse: Same as Bathorse.
bawl: To proclaim with a loud voice, or by outcry, as a hawker ortown-crier does. Swift.
bawler: One who bawls.
bawrel: A kind of hawk. [Obs.] Halliwell.
baxter: A baker; originally, a female baker. [Old Eng. & Scotch]
bay: Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to thecolor of horses. Bay cat (Zoöl.), a wild cat of Africa and the EastIndies (Felis aurata).-- Bay lynx (Zoöl.), the common American lynx (Felis, or Lynx,rufa).
bay ice: See under Ice.
bay leaf: See under 3d Bay.
bay rum: A fragrant liquid, used for cosmetic and medicinal purposes.
bay salt: Salt which has been obtained from sea water, by evaporation inshallow pits or basins, by the heat of the sun; the large crystallinesalt of commerce. Bacon. Ure.
bay state: Massachusetts, which had been called the Colony ofMassachusetts Bay; -- a nickname.
bay tree: A species of laurel. (Laurus nobilis).
bay window: A window forming a bay or recess in a room, and projectingoutward from the wall, either in a rectangular, polygonal, orsemicircular form; -- often corruptly called a bow window.
bay yarn: Woolen yarn. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
bay-antler: The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler.
baya: The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).
bayadere: A female dancer in the East Indies. [Written also bajadere.]
bayamo: A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba,esp. near Bayamo. The gusts, called bayamo winds, are modified foehnwinds.
bayard: Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse. Commonly in thephrase blind bayard, an old blind horse.Blind bayard moves the mill. Philips.
bayardly: Blind; stupid. [Obs.] "A formal and bayardly round of duties."Goodman.
baybolt: A bolt with a barbed shank.
bayed: Having a bay or bays. "The large bayed barn." Drayton.
bayeux tapestry: A piece of linen about 1 ft. 8 in. wide by 213 ft. long,covered with embroidery representing the incidents of William theConqueror's expedition to England, preserved in the town museum ofBayeux in Normandy. It is probably of the 11th century, and isattributed by tradition to Matilda, the Conqueror's wife.
bayman: In the United States navy, a sick-bay nurse; -- now officiallydesignated as hospital apprentice.
bayonet: A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle ofa musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means ofoffense and defense.
bayou: An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a largeriver, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movementexcept from tide and wind. [Southern U. S.]A dark slender thread of a bayou moves loiteringly northeastward intoa swamp of huge cypresses. G. W. Cable.
bayou state: Mississippi; -- a nickname, from its numerous bayous.
bdelloidea: The order of Annulata which includes the leeches. SeeHirudinea.
bdellometer: A cupping glass to which are attached a scarificator and anexhausting syringe. Dunglison.
bdellomorpha: An order of Nemertina, including the large leechlike worms(Malacobdella) often parasitic in clams.
be: A prefix, originally the same word as by; joined with verbs, itserves
be-all: The whole; all that is to be. [Poetic] Shak.
beach: To run or drive (as a vessel or a boat) upon a beach; tostrand; as, to beach a ship.
beach comber: A long, curling wave rolling in from the ocean. See Comber.[Amer.]
beachy: Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches;shingly.The beachy girdle of the ocean. Shak.
beaconage: Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons,collectively.
beaconless: Having no beacon.
bead: To ornament with beads or beading.
beading: Molding in imitation of beads.
beadlery: Office or jurisdiction of a beadle.
beadleship: The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle. A. Wood.
beadroll: A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certainnumber of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of achaplet; hence, a catalogue in general.On Fame's eternal beadroll worthy to be field. Spenser.It is quite startling, on going over the beadroll of Englishworthies, to find how few are directly represented in the male line.Quart. Rev.
beadsnake: A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius),banded with yellow, red, and black.
beadwork: Ornamental work in beads.
beak: 1. (Zoöl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a hornysheath, covering the jaws. The form varied much according to the foodand habits of the bird, and is largely used in the classification ofbirds. (b) A similar bill in other animals, as the turtles. (c) Thelong projecting sucking mouth of some insects, and otherinvertebrates, as in the Hemiptera. (d) The upper or projecting partof the shell, near the hinge of a bivalve. (e) The prolongation ofcertain univalve shells containing the canal.
beaked: Furnished with a process or a mouth like a beak; rostrate.Beaked whale (Zoöl.), a cetacean of the genus Hyperoodon; thebottlehead whale.
beakhead: An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a headwith a beak. Parker.
beakiron: A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach theinterior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil.
beal: A small inflammatory tumor; a pustule. [Prov. Eng.]
beam: A heavy iron lever having an oscillating motion on a centralaxis, one end of which is connected with the piston rod from which itreceives motion, and the other with the crank of the wheel shaft; --called also working beam or walking beam.
beam tree: A tree (Pyrus aria) related to the apple.
beambird: A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so calledbecause it often nests on a beam in a building.
beamed: Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag.Tost his beamed frontlet to the sky. Sir W. Scott.
beamful: Beamy; radiant.
beamily: In a beaming manner.
beaminess: The state of being beamy.
beaming: Emitting beams; radiant.
beamingly: In a beaming manner; radiantly.
beamlet: A small beam of light.
bean: A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chieflyof the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.
bean caper: A deciduous plant of warm climates, generally with fleshyleaves and flowers of a yellow or whitish yellow color, of the genusZygophyllum.
bean trefoil: A leguminous shrub of southern Europe, with trifoliate leaves(Anagyris foetida).
bear: A bier. [Obs.] Spenser.
bear state: Arkansas; -- a nickname, from the many bears once inhabitingits forests.
bear-trap dam: A kind of movable dam, in one form consisting of two leavesresting against each other at the top when raised and folding downone over the other when lowered, for deepening shallow parts in ariver.
bearable: Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable.-- Bear"a*bly, adv.
bearberry: A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi),having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berriesof which bears are said to be fond.
bearbind: The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).
beard: Long or stiff hairs on a plant; the awn; as, the beard ofgrain.
bearded: Having a beard. "Bearded fellow." Shak. "Bearded grain."Dryden. Bearded vulture, Bearded eagle. (Zoöl.) See Lammergeir.-- Bearded tortoise. (Zoöl.) See Matamata.
beardie: The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe. [Scot.]
beardlessness: The state or quality of being destitute of beard.
bearer: One who holds a check, note, draft, or other order for thepayment of money; as, pay to bearer.
bearherd: A man who tends a bear.
bearhound: A hound for baiting or hunting bears. Car
bearing: Any single emblem or charge in an escutcheon or coat of arms --commonly in the pl.A carriage covered with armorial bearings. Thackeray.
bearing cloth: A cloth with which a child is covered when carried to bebaptized. Shak.
bearing rein: A short rein looped over the check hook or the hames to keepthe horse's head up; -- called in the United States a checkrein.
bearing ring: In a balloon, the braced wooden ring attached to the suspensionropes at the bottom, functionally analogous to the keel of a ship.
bearish: Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear intemper or manners. Harris.
bearishness: Behavior like that of a bear.
bearn: See Bairn. [Obs.]
bearskin: A large bivalve shell of the East Indies (Hippopus maculatus),often used as an ornament.
bearward: A keeper of bears. See Bearherd. [R.] Shak.
beasthood: State or nature of a beast.
beastings: See Biestings.
beastlihead: Beastliness. [Obs.] Spenser.
beastlike: Like a beast.
beastliness: The state or quality of being beastly.
beat: To give the signal for, by beat of drum; to sound by beat ofdrum; as, to beat an alarm, a charge, a parley, a retreat; to beatthe general, the reveille, the tattoo. See Alarm, Charge, Parley,etc. To beat down, to haggle with (any one) to secure a lower price;to force down. [Colloq.] -- To beat into, to teach or instill, byrepetition.-- To beat off, to repel or drive back.-- To beat out, to extend by hammering.-- To beat out of a thing, to cause to relinquish it, or give it up."Nor can anything beat their posterity out of it to this day." South.-- To beat the dust. (Man.) (a) To take in too little ground withthe fore legs, as a horse. (b) To perform curvets too precipitatelyor too low.-- To beat the hoof, to walk; to go on foot.-- To beat the wing, to flutter; to move with fluttering agitation.-- To beat time, to measure or regulate time in music by the motionof the hand or foot.-- To beat up, to attack suddenly; to alarm or disturb; as, to beatup an enemy's quarters.
beath: To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood. [Obs.]Spenser.
beatificate: To beatify. [Obs.] Fuller.
beatification: The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp.,in the R. C. Church, the act or process of ascertaining and declaringthat a deceased person is one of "the blessed," or has attained thesecond degree of sanctity, -- usually a stage in the process ofcanonization. "The beatification of his spirit." Jer. Taylor.
beatify: To ascertain and declare, by a public process and decree, thata deceased person is one of "the blessed" and is to be reverenced assuch, though not canonized.
beating: Pulsative sounds. See Beat, n.
beatitude: Beatification. Milman.
beau ideal: A conception or image of consummate beauty, moral or physical,formed in the mind, free from all the deformities, defects, andblemishes seen in actual existence; an ideal or faultless standard ormodel.
beau monde: The fashionable world; people of fashion and gayety. Prior.
beaucatcher: A small flat curl worn on the temple by women. [Humorous]
beaufet: A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.;a buffet.A beaufet . . . filled with gold and silver vessels. Prescott.
beaufin: See Biffin. Wright.
beauish: Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine. "Abeauish young spark." Byrom.
beaumontague: A cement used in making joints, filling cracks, etc.  For iron,the principal constituents are iron borings and sal ammoniac; forwood, white lead or litharge, whiting, and linseed oil.
beauseant: The black and white standard of the Knights Templars.
beauship: The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau. [Jocular]Dryden.
beauteous: Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome. [Mostly poetic] --Beau"te*ous*ly, adv. --
beautied: Beautiful; embellished. [Poetic] Shak.
beautifier: One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful.
beautiful: Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to thesight or the mind.A circle is more beautiful than a square; a square is more beautifulthan a parallelogram. Lord Kames.
beautify: To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; todeck; to grace; to embellish.The arts that beautify and polish life. Burke.
beautiless: Destitute of beauty. Hammond.
beaux: pl. of Beau.
beauxite: See Bauxite.
beaver: An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.
beaver state: Oregon; -- a nickname.
beavered: Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat. "His beavered brow."Pope.
beaverteen: A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn afterdyeing. Simmonds.
bebeeru: A tropical South American tree (Nectandra Rodioi), the bark ofwhich yields the alkaloid bebeerine, and the wood of which is knownas green heart.
bebleed: To make bloody; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
beblot: To blot; to stain. Chaucer.
beblubber: To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, hereyes or cheeks were beblubbered.
bebung: A tremolo effect, such as that produced on the piano byvibratory repetition of a note with sustained use of the pedal.
became: of Become.
becard: A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityrainquisetor).
beccabunga: See Brooklime.
beccafico: A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by theItalians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fedon figs, grapes, etc.
bechamel: A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream.
bechance: By chance; by accident. [Obs.] Grafton.
becharm: To charm; to captivate.
beche de mer: The trepang.
bechic: Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough. Thomas.-- n.
bechuanas: A division of the Bantus, dwelling between the Orange andZambezi rivers, supposed to be the most ancient Bantu population ofSouth Africa. They are divided into totemic clans; they areintelligent and progressive.
beck: See Beak. [Obs.] Spenser.
becker: A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream orbraise.
becket: A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope
beckon: To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motionof the hand.His distant friends, he beckons near. Dryden.It beckons you to go away with it. Shak.
beclap: To catch; to grasp; to insnare. [Obs.] Chaucer.
beclip: To embrace; to surround. [Obs.] Wyclif.
becloud: To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud.If thou becloud the sunshine of thine eye. Quarles.
become: To suit or be suitable to; to be congruous with; to befit; toaccord with, in character or circumstances; to be worthy of, orproper for; to cause to appear well; -- said of persons and things.It becomes me so to speak of so excellent a poet. Dryden.I have known persons so anxious to have their dress become them, asto convert it, at length, into their proper self, and thus actuallyto become the dress. Coleridge.
becomed: Proper; decorous. [Obs.]And gave him what becomed love I might. Shak.
becoming: Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting.A low and becoming tone. Thackeray.
becomingly: In a becoming manner.
becomingness: The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity;fitness.The becomingness of human nature. Grew.
becquerel rays: Radiations first observed by the French physicist HenriBecquerel, in working with uranium and its compounds. They consist ofa mixture of alpha, beta, and gamma rays.
becripple: To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame. [R.] Dr. H. More.
becuna: A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyræna spet). See Barracuda.
becurl: To curl; to adorn with curls.
bed: A layer or seam, or a horizontal stratum between layers; as, abed of coal, iron, etc.
bed rock: The solid rock underlying superficial formations. Also Fig.
bed steps: Steps for mounting a bed of unusual height.
bedabble: To dabble; to sprinkle or wet. Shak.
bedaff: To make a daff or fool of. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bedagat: The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah. Malcom.
bedaggle: To daggle.
bedash: To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; tobespatter. "Trees bedashed with rain." Shak.
bedaub: To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.Bedaub foul designs with a fair varnish. Barrow.
bedazzle: To dazzle or make dim by a strong light. "Bedazzled with thesun." Shak.
bedbug: A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (CimexLectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
bedchair: A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support themwhile sitting up in bed.
bedchamber: A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in. Shak. Lordsof the bedchamber, eight officers of the royal household, all ofnoble families, who wait in turn a week each. [Eng.] -- Ladies of thebedchamber, eight ladies, all titled, holding a similar officialposition in the royal household, during the reign of a queen. [Eng.]
bedclothes: Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed. Shak.
bedcord: A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support thebed.
bedded: Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arrangedin a bed or beds.
bedding: The state or position of beds and layers.
bede: To pray; also, to offer; to proffer. [Obs.] R. of Gloucester.Chaucer.
bedeck: To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace.Bedecked with boughs, flowers, and garlands. Pennant.
bedehouse: ,n.Same as Beadhouse.
bedelry: Beadleship. [Obs.] Blount.
beden: The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana). It is probablythe wild goat of the Bible.
bedesman: Same as Beadsman. [Obs.]
bedevilment: The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatioustrouble. [Colloq.]
bedew: To moisten with dew, or as with dew. "Falling tears his facebedew." Dryden.
bedewer: One who, or that which, bedews.
bedewy: Moist with dew; dewy. [Obs.]Night with her bedewy wings. A. Brewer.
bedfellow: One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who sharesone's couch.
bedgown: A nightgown.
bedight: To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn. [Archaic] Milton.
bedim: To make dim; to obscure or darken. Shak.
bedizen: To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.Remnants of tapestried hangings, . . . and shreds of pictures withwhich he had bedizened his tatters. Sir W. Scott.
bedizenment: That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of beingdressed, tawdrily.
bedkey: An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.
bedlam: Belonging to, or fit for, a madhouse. "The bedlam, brainsickduchess." Shak.
bedlamite: An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman. "Raving bedlamites."Beattie.
bedmaker: One who makes beds.
bedote: To cause to dote; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bedouin: One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scatteredover Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts.-- Bed"ou*in*ism (, n.
bedphere: See Bedfere. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
bedquilt: A quilt for a bed; a coverlet.
bedrabble: To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble.
bedraggle: To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, aresuffered to drag in dust, mud, etc. Swift.
bedrench: To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak. Shak.
bedribble: To dribble upon.
bedrizzle: To drizzle upon.
bedrop: To sprinkle, as with drops.The yellow carp, in scales bedropped with gold. Pope.
bedrug: To drug abundantly or excessively.
bedside: The side of a bed.
bedsite: A recess in a room for a bed.Of the three bedrooms, two have fireplaces, and all are of fair size,with windows and bedsite well placed. Quart. Rev.
bedsore: A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time inbed.
bedspread: A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet. [U. S.]
bedstaff: "A wooden pin stuck anciently on the sides of the bedstead, tohold the clothes from slipping on either side." Johnson.Hostess, accommodate us with a bedstaff. B. Jonson.Say there is no virtue in cudgels and bedstaves. Brome.
bedstead: A framework for supporting a bed.
bedstock: The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead. [Obs. orDial. Eng.]
bedstraw: A genus of slender herbs, usually with square stems, whorledleaves, and small white flowers. Our Lady's bedstraw, which hasyellow flowers, is Galium verum.-- White bedstraw is G. mollugo.
bedswerver: One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow.[Poetic] Shak.
bedtick: A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materialsof a bed.
bedtime: The time to go to bed. Shak.
beduck: To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse. "Deep himselfbeducked." Spenser.
beduin: See Bedouin.
bedung: To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile,literally or figuratively. Bp. Hall.
bedust: To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust. Sherwood.
bedward: Towards bed.
bedwarf: To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.Donne.
bedye: To dye or stain.Briton fields with Sarazin blood bedyed. Spenser.
bee: p. p. of Be; -- used for been. [Obs.] Spenser.
bee larkspur: (Bot.) See Larkspur.
bee line: The shortest line from one place to another, like that of a beeto its hive when loaded with honey; an air line. "A bee line for thebrig." Kane.
beebread: A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells ofhoneycomb. It is made chiefly from the pollen of flowers, which iscollected by bees as food for their young.
beech: A tree of the genus Fagus.
beech tree: The beech.
beechen: Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech;belonging to the beech. "Plain beechen vessels." Dryden.
beechnut: The nut of the beech tree.
beechy: Of or relating to beeches.
beef: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, beef. Beef tea, essence ofbeef, or strong beef broth.
beef-witted: Stupid; dull. Shak.
beefeater: An African bird of the genus Buphaga, which feeds on the larv¯f botflies hatched under the skin of oxen, antelopes, etc. Twospecies are known.
beefsteak: A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable forbroiling.
beefwood: An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used forcabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales,and Banksia compar of Queensland.
beefy: Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef;fleshy.
beehive: A hive for a swarm of bees. Also used figuratively.
beehouse: A house for bees; an apiary.
beeld: Same as Beild. Fairfax.
beelzebub: The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed thesovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil. SeeBaal.
beem: A trumpet. [Obs.]
beemaster: One who keeps bees.
been: The past participle of Be. In old authors it is also the pr.tense plural of Be. See 1st Bee.Assembled been a senate grave and stout. Fairfax.
beeregar: Sour beer. [Obs.]
beerhouse: A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.
beeriness: Beery condition.
beery: Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.
beestings: Same as Biestings.
beeswax: The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells areconstructed.
beeswing: The second crust formed in port and some other wines after longkeeping. It consists of pure, shining scales of tartar, supposed toresemble the wing of a bee.
beet: A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edibleroot the first year and seed the second year.
beet radish: Same as Beetrave.
beetle: Any insect of the order Coleoptera, having four wings, theouter pair being stiff cases for covering the others when they arefolded up. See Coleoptera. Beetle mite (Zoöl.), one of many speciesof mites, of the family Oribatidæ, parasitic on beetles.-- Black beetle, the common large black cockroach (Blattaorientalis).
beetle brow: An overhanging brow.
beetle-browed: Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.
beetle-headed: Dull; stupid. Shak.
beetlehead: The black-bellied plover, or bullhead (Squatarola helvetica).See Plover.
beetlestock: The handle of a beetle.
beetrave: The common beet (Beta vulgaris).
beeve: A beef; a beef creature.They would knock down the first beeve they met with. W. Irving.
beeves: ; plural of Beef, the animal.
befall: To happen to.I beseech your grace that I may know The worst that may befall me.Shak.
befit: To be suitable to; to suit; to become.That name best befits thee. Milton.
befitting: Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting.
befittingly: In a befitting manner; suitably.
beflatter: To flatter excessively.
beflower: To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.Hobbes.
beforehand: In comfortable circumstances as regards property; forehanded.Rich and much beforehand. Bacon.
beforetime: Formerly; aforetime.[They] dwelt in their tents, as beforetime. 2 Kings xiii. 5.
befortune: To befall. [Poetic]I wish all good befortune you. Shak.
befriend: To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, orcountenance.By the darkness befriended. Longfellow.
befriendment: Act of befriending. [R.]
befrill: To furnish or deck with a frill.
befringe: To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn aswith fringe. Fuller.
befuddle: To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.
beg: A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East;a bey.
bega: See Bigha.
begem: To adorn with gems, or as with gems.Begemmed with dewdrops. Sir W. Scott.Those lonely realms bright garden isles begem. Shelley.
begetter: One who begets; a father.
beggable: Capable of being begged.
beggarhood: The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars.
beggarism: Beggary. [R.]
beggarliness: The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness.
beggarly: In an indigent, mean, or despicable manner; in the manner of abeggar.
beggary: Beggarly. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
beggestere: A beggar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
begild: To gild. B. Jonson.
begin: Beginning. [Poetic & Obs.] Spenser.
beginner: One who begins or originates anything. Specifically
begirdle: To surround as with a girdle.
begirt: To encompass; to begird. Milton.
beglerbeg: The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next indignity to the grand vizier.
begnaw: To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.The worm of conscience still begnaw thy soul. Shak.
begod: To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify. [Obs.] "Begoddedsaints." South.
begohm: A unit of resistance equal to one billion ohms, or one thousandmegohms.
begone: Go away; depart; get you gone.
begonia: A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species ofwhich are grown as ornamental plants. The leaves are curiously one-sided, and often exhibit brilliant colors.
begore: To besmear with gore.
begot: imp. & p. p. of Beget.
begotten: p. p. of Beget.
begrave: To bury; also, to engrave. [Obs.] Gower.
begrease: To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter.
begrime: To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in.Books falling to pieces and begrimed with dust. Macaulay.
begrimer: One who, or that which, begrimes.
begrudge: To grudge; to envy the possession of.
beguilement: The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled.
beguiler: One who, or that which, beguiles.
beguiling: Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting.-- Be*guil"ing*ly, adv.
beguin: See Beghard.
beguinage: A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupiedby a community of Beguines.
beguine: A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitableassociations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whosemembers live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows.
begum: In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank. Malcom.
begun: of Begin.
behalf: Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support;defense; vindication.In behalf of his mistress's beauty. Sir P. Sidney.Against whom he had contracted some prejudice in behalf of hisnation. Clarendon.In behalf of, in the interest of.-- On behalf of, on account of; on the part of.
behappen: To happen to. [Obs.]
behave: To act; to conduct; to bear or carry one's self; as, to behavewell or ill.
behavior: Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conductingone's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimateobjects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of themagnetic needle.A gentleman that is very singular in his behavior. Steele.To be upon one's good behavior, To be put upon one's good behavior,to be in a state of trial, in which something important depends onpropriety of conduct.-- During good behavior, while (or so long as) one conducts one'sself with integrity and fidelity or with propriety.
behead: To sever the head from; to take off the head of.
beheadal: ,n.Beheading. [Modern]
beheld: imp. & p. p. of Behold.
behemoth: An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15-24.
behest: To vow. [Obs.] Paston.
behete: See Behight. [Obs.] Chaucer.
behight: A vow; a promise. [Obs.] Surrey.
behind: The backside; the rump. [Low]
behither: On this side of. [Obs.]Two miles behither Clifden. Evelyn.
behold: To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard withthe eyes.When he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived. Num. xxi. 9.Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. John.i. 29.
beholden: Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.But being so beholden to the Prince. Tennyson.
beholder: One who beholds; a spectator.
beholding: Obliged; beholden. [Obs.]I was much bound and beholding to the right reverend father. Robynson(More's Utopia).So much hath Oxford been beholding to her nephews, or sister'schildren. Fuller.
beholdingness: , The state of being obliged or beholden. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
behoof: Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.No mean recompense it brings To your behoof. Milton.
behoovable: Supplying need; profitable; advantageous. [Obs.] Udall.
behoove: To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, withrespect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly usedimpersonally.And thus it behooved Christ to suffer. Luke xxiv. 46.[Also written behove.]
behooveful: Advantageous; useful; profitable. [Archaic] -- Be*hoove"ful*ly,adv.-- Be*hoove"ful*ness, n. [Archaic]
behove: , and derivatives. See Behoove, & c.
behovely: Useful, or usefully. [Obs.]
behowl: To howl at. [Obs.]The wolf behowls the moon. Shak.
beige: Debeige.
beild: A place of shelter; protection; refuge. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.][Also written bield and beeld.]The random beild o' clod or stane. Burns.
being: Existing.
bejade: To jade or tire. [Obs.] Milton.
bejape: To jape; to laugh at; to deceive. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bejaundice: To infect with jaundice.
bejewel: To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle. "Bejeweledhands." Thackeray.
bejuco: Any climbing woody vine of the tropics with the habit of aliane; in the Philippines, esp. any of various species of Calamus,the cane or rattan palm.
bejumble: To jumble together.
bekah: Half a shekel.
beknave: To call knave. [Obs.] Pope.
beknow: To confess; to acknowledge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bel: The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal.See Baal. Baruch vi. 41.
bel-accoyle: A kind or favorable reception or salutation. [Obs.]
bel-esprit: A fine genius, or man of wit. "A man of letters and a belesprit." W. Irving.
belam: To beat or bang. [Prov. & Low, Eng.] Todd.
belamy: Good friend; dear friend. [Obs.] Chaucer.
belate: To retard or make too late. Davenant.
belated: Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night;benighted. "Some belated peasant." Milton.-- Be*lat"ed*ness, n. Milton.
belaud: To laud or praise greatly.
belay: To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it rounda pin, cleat, or kevel. Totten.
belaying pin: A strong pin in the side of a vessel, or by the mast, roundwhich ropes are wound when they are fastened or belayed.
belcher: One who, or that which, belches.
beleaguer: To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege;to blockade.The wail of famine in beleaguered towns. Longfellow.
beleaguerer: One who beleaguers.
beleave: To leave or to be left. [Obs.] May.
belecture: To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently.
belee: To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind. Shak.
belemnite: A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lowerextremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it isordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chamberedcone, called the phragmocone, prolonged, on one side, into a delicateconcave blade; the thunderstone. It is the internal shell of acephalopod related to the sepia, and belonging to an extinct family.The belemnites are found in rocks of the Jurassic and Cretaceousages.-- Bel*em*nit"ic, a.
beleper: To infect with leprosy. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
belfry: A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack anddefense.
belgard: A sweet or loving look. [Obs.] Spenser.
belgian: Of or pertaining to Belgium.-- n.
belgian block: A nearly cubical block of some tough stone, esp. granite, usedas a material for street pavements. Its usual diameter is 5 to 7inches.
belgravian: Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, aroundPimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic.
belial: An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; thepersonification of evil.What concord hath Christ with Belia 2 Cor. vi. 15.A son (or man) of Belial, a worthless, wicked, or thoroughly depravedperson. 1 Sam. ii. 12.
belibel: To libel or traduce; to calumniate. Fuller.
belief: A persuasion of the truths of religion; faith.No man can attain [to] belief by the bare contemplation of heaven andearth. Hooker.
beliefful: Having belief or faith.
believable: Capable of being believed; credible.-- Be*liev"a*ble*ness, n.-- Be*liev`a*bil"i*ty (, n.
believe: To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority ortestimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidencefurnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind, or bycircumstances other than personal knowledge; to regard or accept astrue; to place confidence in; to think; to consider; as, to believe aperson, a statement, or a doctrine.Our conqueror (whom I now Of force believe almighty). Milton.King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets Acts xxvi.Often followed by a dependent clause. I believe that Jesus Christ isthe Son of God. Acts viii. 37.
believer: One who gives credit to the truth of the Scriptures, as arevelation from God; a Christian; -- in a more restricted sense, onewho receives Christ as his Savior, and accepts the way of salvationunfolded in the gospel.Thou didst open the Kingdom of Heaven to all believers. Book of Com.Prayer.
believing: That believes; having belief.-- Be*liev"ing*ly, adv.
belight: To illuminate. [Obs.] Cowley.
belike: It is likely or probably; perhaps. [Obs. or Archaic] --Be*like"ly, adv.Belike, boy, then you are in love. Shak.
belime: To besmear or insnare with birdlime.
belittle: To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in adepreciatory or contemptuous way. T. Jefferson.
belive: Forthwith; speedily; quickly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
belk: To vomit. [Obs.]
bell: That part of the capital of a column included between theabacus and neck molding; also used for the naked core of nearlycylindrical shape, assumed to exist within the leafage of a capital.
bell animalcule: An infusorian of the family Vorticellidæ, common in fresh-waterponds.
bell bearer: A Brazilian leaf hopper (Bocydium tintinnabuliferum),remarkable for the four bell-shaped appendages of its thorax.
bell crank: A lever whose two arms form a right angle, or nearly a rightangle, having its fulcrum at the apex of the angle. It is used inbell pulls and in changing the direction of bell wires at angles ofrooms, etc., and also in machinery.
bell jar: A glass vessel, varying in size, open at the bottom and closedat the top like a bell, and having a knob or handle at the top forlifting it. It is used for a great variety of purposes; as, with theair pump, and for holding gases, also for keeping the dust fromarticles exposed to view.
bell metal: A hard alloy or bronze, consisting usually of about three partsof copper to one of tin; -- used for making bells. Bell metal ore, asulphide of tin, copper, and iron; the mineral stannite.
bell pepper: A species of Capsicum, or Guinea pepper (C. annuum). It is thered pepper of the gardens.
bell process: The process of washing molten pig iron by adding iron oxide,proposed by I. Lowthian Bell of England about 1875.
bell system of control: See Cloche.
bell-faced: Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers.
bell-mouthed: Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun. Byron.
bell-shaped: Having the shape of a widemouthed bell; campanulate.
bellarmine: A stoneware jug of a pattern originated in the neighborhood ofCologne, Germany, in the 16th century. It has a bearded face or masksupposed to represent Cardinal Bellarmine, a leader in the RomanCatholic Counter Reformation, following the Reformation; -- calledalso graybeard, longbeard.
belle: A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsomelady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady.
belle-lettrist: One versed in belleslettres.
belled: Hung with a bell or bells.
belleek ware: A porcelainlike kind of decorative pottery with a high gloss,which is sometimes iridescent. A very fine kind is made at Belleek inIreland.
bellerophon: A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to theHeteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.
belles-lettres: Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhatvaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste arepredominant.
bellflower: A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell-shaped flowers.
bellibone: A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid.[Obs.] Spenser.
bellicose: Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.Arnold was, in fact, in a bellicose vein. W. Irving.
bellicosely: In a bellicose manner.
bellicous: Bellicose. [Obs.]
bellied: , a. Having (such) a belly; puffed out; -- used in composition;as, pot-bellied; shad-bellied.
belligerent: A nation or state recognized as carrying on war; a personengaged in warfare.
belligerently: In a belligerent manner; hostilely.
belling: A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time. Johnson.
bellipotent: Mighty in war; armipotent. [R.] Blount.
bellman: A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anythingin the streets. Formerly, also, a night watchman who called thehours. Milton.
bellon: Lead colic.
bellona: The goddess of war.
bellow: To emit with a loud voice; to shout; -- used with out. "Wouldbellow out a laugh." Dryden.
bellower: One who, or that which, bellows.
bellows: An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternateexpansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws inair through a valve and expels it through a tube for variouspurposes, as blowing fires, ventilating mines, or filling the pipesof an organ with wind. Bellows camera, in photography, a form ofcamera, which can be drawn out like an accordion or bellows.-- Hydrostatic bellows. See Hydrostatic.-- A pair of bellows, the ordinary household instrument for blowingfires, consisting of two nearly heart-shaped boards with handles,connected by leather, and having a valve and tube.
bellows fish: A European fish (Centriscus scolopax), distinguished by a longtubular snout, like the pipe of a bellows; -- called also trumpetfish, and snipe fish.
belluine: Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal. [R.]Animal and belluine life. Atterbury.
bellwort: A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shapedflowers.
belly: The hollow part of a curved or bent timber, the convex part ofwhich is the back. Belly doublet, a doublet of the 16th century,hanging down so as to cover the belly. Shak.-- Belly fretting, the chafing of a horse's belly with a girth.Johnson.-- Belly timber, food. [Ludicrous] Prior.-- Belly worm, a worm that breeds or lives in the belly (stomach orintestines). Johnson.
belly-god: One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; aglutton; an epicure.
belly-pinched: Pinched with hunger; starved. "The belly-pinched wolf." Shak.
bellyache: Pain in the bowels; colic.
bellyband: A band of canvas, to strengthen a sail.
bellybound: Costive; constipated.
bellycheat: An apron or covering for the front of the person. [Obs.] Beau.& Fl.
bellycheer: Good cheer; viands. [Obs.] "Bellycheer and banquets." Rowlands."Loaves and bellycheer." Milton.
bellyful: As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence
belock: To lock, or fasten as with a lock. [Obs.] Shak.
belomancy: A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of markedarrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrowsdrawn being supposed to foreshow the future. Encyc. Brit.
belong: To be deserved by. [Obs.]More evils belong us than happen to us. B. Jonson.
belonite: Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimesobserved in glassy volcanic rocks.
belove: To love. [Obs.] Wodroephe.
beloved: Greatly loved; dear to the heart.Antony, so well beloved of Cæsar. Shak.This is my beloved Son. Matt. iii. 17.
belowt: To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to. [Obs.] Camden.
belsire: A grandfather, or ancestor. "His great belsire Brute." [Obs.]Drayton.
belswagger: A lewd man; also, a bully. [Obs.] Dryden.
belt: Same as Band, n., 2. A very broad band is more properly termeda belt.
belted: See Beltane.
belting: The material of which belts for machinery are made; also,belts, taken collectively.
beluga: A cetacean allied to the dolphins.
belute: To bespatter, as with mud. [R.] Sterne.
belvedere: A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open,constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect.
belzebuth: A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil.
bema: A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly. Mitford.
bemad: To make mad. [Obs.] Fuller.
bemangle: To mangle; to tear asunder. [R.] Beaumont.
bemask: To mask; to conceal.
bemaster: To master thoroughly.
bemaul: To maul or beat severely; to bruise. "In order to bemaulYorick." Sterne.
bemaze: To bewilder.Intellects bemazed in endless doubt. Cowper.
bemean: To make mean; to lower. C. Reade.
bemeet: To meet. [Obs.]Our very loving sister, well bemet. Shak.
bemete: To mete. [Obs.] Shak.
bemingle: To mingle; to mix.
bemire: To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil bypassing through mud or dirt.Bemired and benighted in the dog. Burke.
bemist: To envelop in mist. [Obs.]
bemoan: To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; tolament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.Implores their pity, and his pain bemoans. Dryden.
bemoaner: One who bemoans.
bemock: To mock; to ridicule.Bemock the modest moon. Shak.
bemoil: To soil or encumber with mire and dirt. [Obs.] Shak.
bemol: The sign [Obs.]
bemonster: To make monstrous or like a monster. [Obs.] Shak.
bemourn: To mourn over. Wyclif.
bemuddle: To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse.
bemuffle: To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.Bemuffled with the externals of religion. Sterne.
bemuse: To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.A parson much bemused in beer. Pope.
ben: Within; in; in or into the interior; toward the innerapartment. [Scot.]
bename: To promise; to name. [Obs.]
bench: To sit on a seat of justice. [R.] Shak.
bench mark: Any permanent mark to which other levels may be referred.Specif.
bench warrant: A process issued by a presiding judge or by a court against aperson guilty of some contempt, or indicted for some crime; -- socalled in distinction from a justice's warrant.
bencher: One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.
bend: To fasten, as one rope to another, or as a sail to its yard orstay; or as a cable to the ring of an anchor. Totten. To bend thebrow, to knit the brow, as in deep thought or in anger; to scowl; tofrown. Camden.
bendable: Capable of being bent.
bending: The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands.[Obs.] Chaucer.
bendlet: A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend.
bendwise: Diagonally.
bendy: Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield orits charge. Cussans.
bene: See Benne.
bene placito: At pleasure; ad libitum.
beneaped: See Neaped.
benedicite: A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word)which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church ofEngland. It is taken from an apocryphal addition to the third chapterof Daniel.
benedict: Having mild and salubrious qualities. [Obs.] Bacon.
benedictine: Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet.
benediction: The short prayer which closes public worship; as, to give thebenediction.
benedictional: A book of benedictions.
benedictionary: A collected series of benedictions.The benedictionary of Bishop Athelwold. G. Gurton's Needle.
benedictive: Tending to bless. Gauden.
benedictory: Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer.Thackeray.
benedictus: The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i.68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version.
benedight: Blessed. [R.] Longfellow.
benefactor: One who confers a benefit or benefits. Bacon.
benefactress: A woman who confers a benefit.His benefactress blushes at the deed. Cowper.
benefic: Favorable; beneficent. Milton.
benefice: An estate in lands; a fief.
beneficed: Possessed of a benefice o "Beneficed clergymen." Burke.
beneficeless: Having no benefice. "Beneficeless precisians." Sheldon.
beneficence: The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, orcharity; bounty springing from purity and goodness.And whose beneficence no charge exhausts. Cowper.
beneficent: , a. Doing or producing good; performing acts of kindness andcharity; characterized by beneficence.The beneficent fruits of Christianity. Prescott.
beneficential: Relating to beneficence.
beneficently: In a beneficent manner; with beneficence.
beneficial: Receiving, or entitled to have or receive, advantage, use, orbenefit; as, the beneficial owner of an estate. Kent.
beneficially: In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.
beneficialness: The quality of being beneficial; profitableness.
beneficiate: To reduce (ores).-- Ben`e*fi`ci*a"tion (n.
beneficient: Beneficent. [Obs.]
benefit: Natural advantaged; endowments; accomplishments. [R.] "Thebenefits of your own country." Shak. Benefit of clergy. (Law) Seeunder Clergy.
benefit society: A society or association formed for mutual insurance, as amongtradesmen or in labor unions, to provide for relief in sickness, oldage, and for the expenses of burial. Usually called friendly societyin Great Britain.
benefiter: One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.
beneme: To deprive (of), or take away (from). [Obs.]
benempt: of Bename.
benet: To catch in a net; to insnare. Shak.
benevolent: Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting loveto mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness;disposed to give to good objects; kind; charitable.-- Be*nev"o*lent*ly, adv.
benevolous: Kind; benevolent. [Obs.] T. Puller.
bengal: The language spoken in Bengal.
bengalese: Of or pertaining to Bengal.-- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bengal.
bengola: A Bengal light.
benightment: The condition of being benighted.
benignancy: Benignant quality; kindliness.
benignant: Kind; gracious; favorable.-- Be*nig"nant*ly, adv.
benignly: In a benign manner.
benim: To take away. [Obs.]Ire . . . benimeth the man fro God. Chaucer.
benison: Blessing; beatitude; benediction. Shak.More precious than the benison of friends. Talfourd.
benitier: A holy-water stoup. Shipley.
benjamin: See Benzoin.
benjamite: A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin. Judg.iii. 15.
benne: The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum),originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant. From their seeds an oilis expressed, called benne oil, used mostly for making soap. In thesouthern United States the seeds are used in candy.
bennet: The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herbbennet. The name is sometimes given to other plants, as the hemlock,valerian, etc.
benshee: See Banshee.
bent: imp. & p. p. of Bend.
bent grass: Same as Bent, a kind of grass.
benthal: Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean.
benthamic: Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.
benthamism: That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by JeremyBentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated anddetermined by their utility; also, the theory that the sensibility topleasure and the recoil from pain are the only motives whichinfluence human desires and actions, and that these are thesufficient explanation of ethical and jural conceptions.
benthamite: One who believes in Benthamism.
benthos: The bottom of the sea, esp. of the deep oceans; hence (Bot. &Zoöl.), the fauna and flora of the sea bottom; -- opposed toplankton.
benting time: The season when pigeons are said to feed on bents, before peasare ripe.Bare benting times . . . may come. Dryden.
benumb: To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; tostupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold.The creeping death benumbed her senses first. Dryden.
benumbed: Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed bodyand mind.-- Be*numbed"ness, n.
benumbment: Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor. Kirby.
benzal: A transparent crystalline substance,
benzamide: A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained bythe action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by severalother reactions with benzoyl compounds.
benzene: A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in thenaphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from whichit is separated by fractional distillation. The name is sometimesapplied also to the impure commercial product or benzole, and also,but rarely, to a similar mixed product of petroleum. Benzene nucleus,Benzene ring (Chem.), a closed chain or ring, consisting of sixcarbon atoms, each with one hydrogen atom attached, regarded as thetype from which the aromatic compounds are derived. This ring formulais provisionally accepted as representing the probable constitutionof the benzene molecule, C6H6, and as the type on which itsderivatives are formed.
benzile: A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed frombenzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of adoubled benzoyl radical.
benzoate: A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiablebase.
benzoic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin. Benzoic acid, orflowers of benzoin, a peculiar vegetable acid, C6H5.CO2H, obtainedfrom benzoin, and some other balsams, by sublimation or decoction. Itis also found in the urine of infants and herbivorous animals. Itcrystallizes in the form of white, satiny flakes; its odor isaromatic; its taste is pungent, and somewhat acidulous.-- Benzoic aldehyde, oil of bitter almonds; the aldehyde, C6H5.CHO,intermediate in composition between benzoic or benzyl alcohol, andbenzoic acid. It is a thin colorless liquid.
benzoin: The spicebush (Lindera benzoin). Flowers of benzoin, benzoicacid. See under Benzoic.
benzoinated: Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.
benzoline: A white crystalline powder used as an intestinal antiseptic;beta-naphthol benzoate.
benzosol: Guaiacol benzoate, used as an intestinal antiseptic and as asubstitute for creosote in phthisis. It is a colorless crystallinepewder.
benzoyl: A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of theoil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds.[Formerly written also benzule.]
benzyl: A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoicacid; -- commonly used adjectively.
bepaint: To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint.Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek. Shak.
bepelt: To pelt roundly.
bepinch: To pinch, or mark with pinches. Chapman.
beplaster: To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub.Beplastered with rouge. Goldsmith.
beplumed: Decked with feathers.
bepommel: To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail orcriticise in conversation, or in writing. Thackeray.
bepowder: To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.
bepraise: To praise greatly or extravagantly. Goldsmith.
beprose: To reduce to prose. [R.] "To beprose all rhyme." Mallet.
bepuffed: Puffed; praised. Carlyle.
bepurple: To tinge or dye with a purple color.
bequeathable: Capable of being bequeathed.
bequeathal: The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest. Fuller.
bequeathment: The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; abequest.
bequest: To bequeath, or leave as a legacy. [Obs.] "All I have tobequest." Gascoigne.
bequethen: old p. p. of Bequeath. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bequote: To quote constantly or with great frequency.
berain: To rain upon; to wet with rain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
berate: To rate or chide vehemently; to scold. Holland. Motley.
berattle: To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down. [Obs.]Shak.
beray: TO make foul; to soil; to defile. [Obs.] Milton.
berbe: An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet.
berber: A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but oftenclassed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole ofNorth Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara, andwho still occupy a large part of that region; -- called also Kabyles.Also, the language spoken by this people.
berberine: An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from theroot of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants.
berberry: See Barberry.
berceuse: A vocal or instrumental composition of a soft tranquilcharacter, having a lulling effect; a cradle song.
berdash: ,n.A kind of neckcloth. [Obs.]A treatise against the cravat and berdash. Steele.
bere: , v. t. Etym
bereavement: The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of arelative by death.
bereaver: One who bereaves.
bereft: of Bereave.
beretta: Same as Berretta.
berg: A large mass or hill, as of ice.Glittering bergs of ice. Tennyson.
bergander: A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.
bergeret: A pastoral song. [Obs.]
bergh: A hill. [Obs.]
bergmaster: See Barmaster.
bergmeal: (Min.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour. It iscomposed of the shells of infusoria, and in Lapland and Sweden issometimes eaten, mixed with flour or ground birch bark, in times ofscarcity. This name is also given to a white powdery variety ofcalcite.
bergmote: See Barmote.
bergomask: A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo,in Italy, once noted for their clownishness.
bergschrund: The crevasse or series of crevasses, usually deep and oftenbroad, frequently occurring near the head of a mountain glacier,about where the névé field joins the valley portion of the glacier.
bergstock: A long pole with a spike at the end, used in climbingmountains; an alpenstock.
bergylt: The Norway haddock. See Rosefish.
berhyme: To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.
beriberi: An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multipleinflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great musculardebility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy.
berime: To berhyme.
bering sea controversy: A controversy (1886 --93) between Great Britain and the UnitedStates as to the right of Canadians not licensed by the United Statesto carry on seal fishing in the Bering Sea, over which the UnitedStates claimed jurisdiction as a mare clausum. A court ofarbitration, meeting in Paris in 1893, decided against the claim ofthe United States, but established regulations for the preservationof the fur seal.
berkeleian: ,a.Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism;as, Berkeleian philosophy.-- Berke"ley*ism, n.
berlin: A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and theditch.
bermuda grass: A kind of grass (Cynodon Dactylon) esteemed for pasture in theSouthern United States. It is a native of Southern Europe, but is nowwide-spread in warm countries; -- called also scutch grass, and inBermuda, devil grass.
bermuda lily: The large white lily (Lilium longiflorum eximium, syn. L.Harrisii) which is extensively cultivated in Bermuda.
berna fly: A Brazilian dipterous insect of the genus Trypeta, which laysits eggs in the nostrils or in wounds of man and beast, where thelarvæ do great injury.
bernacle: See Barnacle.
bernardine: Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to theCistercian monks.-- n.
bernese: Pertaining to the city o -- n. sing. & pl.
bernicle: A bernicle goose. [Written also barnacle.] Bernicle goose(Zoöl.), a goose (Branta leucopsis), of Arctic Europe and America. Itwas formerly believed that it hatched from the cirripeds of the sea(Lepas), which were, therefore, called barnacles, goose barnacles, orAnatifers. The name is also applied to other related species. SeeAnatifa and Cirripedia.
bernouse: Some as Burnoose.
berob: To rob; to plunder. [Obs.]
beroe: A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to theCtenophora.
berretta: A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman CatholicChurch. A cardinal's berretta is scarlet; that worn by other clericsis black, except that a bishop's is lined with green. [Also speltberetta, biretta, etc.]
berried: Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, aberried shrub.
berry: A small fruit that is pulpy or succulent throughout, havingseeds loosely imbedded in the pulp, as the currant, grape, blueberry.
berrying: A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as growwild.
berseem: An Egyptian clover (Trifolium alexandrinum) extensivelycultivated as a forage plant and soil-renewing crop in the alkalinesoils of the Nile valley, and now introduced into the southwesternUnited States. It is more succulent than other clovers or thanalfalfa. Called also Egyptian clover.
berstle: See Bristle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bertha: A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.
berthage: A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor.
berthierite: A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-graycolor.
berthing: The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake.Smyth.
bertillon system: A system for the identification of persons by a physicaldescription based upon anthropometric measurements, notes ofmarkings, deformities, color, impression of thumb lines, etc.
bertram: Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).
berycoid: Of or pertaining to the Berycidæ, a family of marine fishes.
beryl: A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of muchbeauty. It occurs in hexagonal prisms, commonly of a green or bluishgreen color, but also yellow, pink, and white. It is a silicate ofaluminium and glucinum (beryllium). The aquamarine is a transparent,sea-green variety used as a gem. The emerald is another varietyhighly prized in jewelry, and distinguished by its deep color, whichis probably due to the presence of a little oxide of chromium.
berylline: Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color.
beryllium: A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum.
berylloid: A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- socalled because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.
bes-antler: Same as Bez-antler.
besaint: To make a saint of.
besant: See Bezant.
bescorn: To treat with scorn. "Then was he bescorned." Chaucer.
bescratch: To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.
bescrawl: To cover with scrawls; to scribble over. Milton.
bescreen: To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; toconceal. Shak.
bescribble: To scribble over. "Bescribbled with impertinences." Milton.
besee: To see; to look; to mind. [Obs.] Wyclif.
beseech: Solicitation; supplication. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak.
beseecher: One who beseeches.
beseeching: Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look.-- Be*seech"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*seech"ing*ness, n.
beseechment: The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly. [R.] Goodwin.
beseek: To beseech. [Obs.] Chaucer.
beseem: Literally
beseeming: Becoming; suitable. [Archaic] -- Be*seem"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*seem"ing*ness, n.
beseemly: Fit; suitable; becoming. [Archaic]In beseemly order sitten there. Shenstone.
besetment: The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, thatwhich besets one, as a sin. "Fearing a besetment." Kane.
besetter: One who, or that which, besets.
besetting: Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as,a besetting sin.
beshine: To shine upon; to ullumine.
beshow: A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacificcoast; -- called also candlefish.
beshrew: To curse; to execrate.Beshrew me, but I love her heartily. Shak.
beshroud: To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen.
beshut: To shut up or out. [Obs.]
besides: Over and above; separate or distinct from; in addition to;other than; else than. See Beside, prep., 3, and Syn. under Beside.Besides your cheer, you shall have sport. Shak.
besiege: To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose ofcompelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.Till Paris was besieged, famished, and lost. Shak.
besiegement: The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged. Golding.
besieger: One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged.
besieging: That besieges; laying siege to.-- Be*sie"ging*ly, adv.
besit: To suit; to fit; to become. [Obs.]
beslabber: To beslobber.
beslave: To enslave. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
beslaver: To defile with slaver; to beslobber.
beslime: To daub with slime; to soil. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
beslobber: To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth.Also Fig.
beslubber: To beslobber.
besmear: To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; tosoil.Besmeared with precious balm. Spenser.
besmearer: One that besmears.
besmirch: To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence
besmut: To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.
besnuff: To befoul with snuff. Young.
besogne: A worthless fellow; a bezonian. [Obs.]
besom: A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweepsaway or destroys. [Archaic or Fig.]I will sweep it with the besom of destruction. Isa. xiv. 23.The housemaid with her besom. W. Irving.
besomer: One who uses a besom. [Archaic]
besort: To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become. [Obs.]Such men as may besort your age. Shak.
besot: To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; toinfatuate.Fools besotted with their crimes. Hudibras.
besotted: Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized bydrunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied. "Besotted devotion."Sir W. Scott.-- Be*sot"ted*ly, adv.-- Be*sot"ted*ness, n. Milton.
besottingly: In a besotting manner.
besought: of Beseech.
bespangle: To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with somethingbrilliant or glittering.The grass . . . is all bespangled with dewdrops. Cowper.
bespawl: To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle. [Obs.]Milton.
bespeak: To speak. [Obs.] Milton.
bespeaker: One who bespeaks.
bespeckle: To mark with speckles or spots. Milton.
bespew: To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.
bespice: To season with spice, or with some spicy drug. Shak.
bespirt: Same as Bespurt.
bespit: To daub or soil with spittle. Johnson.
bespoke: imp. & p. p. of Bespeak.
bespot: To mark with spots, or as with spots.
bespread: To spread or cover over.The carpet which bespread His rich pavilion's floor. Glover.
besprent: Sprinkled over; strewed.His face besprent with liquid crystal shines. Shenstone.The floor with tassels of fir was besprent. Longfellow.
besprinkle: To sprinkle over; to scatter over.The bed besprinkles, and bedews the ground. Dryden.
besprinkler: One who, or that which, besprinkles.
besprinkling: The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over.
bespurt: To spurt on or over; to asperse. [Obs.] Milton.
bessemer steel: Steel made directly from cast iron, by burning out a portion ofthe carbon and other impurities that the latter contains, through theagency of a blast of air which is forced through the molten metal; --so called from Sir Henry Bessemer, an English engineer, the inventorof the process.
best: Utmost; highest endeavor or state; most nearly perfect thing,or being, or action; as, to do one's best; to the best of ourability. At best, in the utmost degree or extent applicable to thecase; under the most favorable circumstances; as, life is at bestvery short.-- For best, finally. [Obs.] "Those constitutions . . . are nowestablished for best, and not to be mended." Milton.-- To get the best of, to gain an advantage over, whether fairly orunfairly.-- To make the best of. (a) To improve to the utmost; to use ordispose of to the greatest advantage. "Let there be freedom to carrytheir commodities where they can make the best of them." Bacon. (b)To reduce to the least possible inconvenience; as, to make the bestof ill fortune or a bad bargain.
bestad: Beset; put in peril. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bestain: To stain.
bestar: To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or aswith, stars; to bestud. "Bestarred with anemones." W. Black.
bestial: A domestic animal; also collectively, cattle; as, other kindsof bestial. [Scot.]
bestialize: To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize.The process of bestializing humanity. Hare.
bestially: In a bestial manner.
bestiary: A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing orallegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.
bestick: To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark byinfixing points or spots here and there; to pierce.Truth shall retire Bestuck with slanderous darts. Milton.
bestill: To make still.
bestir: To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life andvigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.You have so bestirred your valor. Shak.Rouse and bestir themselves ere well awake. Milton.
bestorm: To storm. Young.
bestowal: The act of bestowing; disposal.
bestower: One that bestows.
bestraddle: To bestride.
bestraught: Out of one's senses; distracted; mad. [Obs.] Shak.
bestreak: To streak.
bestrew: To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle. [Spelt also bestrow.]Milton.
bestrode: imp. & p. p. of Bestride.
bestrown: p. p. of Bestrew.
bestuck: imp. & p. p. Bestick.
bestud: To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; tostud; as, to bestud with stars. Milton.
beswike: To lure; to cheat. [Obs.] Gower.
bet: That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties,upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act ofgiving such a pledge; a wager. "Having made his bets." Goldsmith.
beta: The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf.etymology of Alphabet. Beta (B, b) is used variously for classifying,as:(a) (Astron.) To designate some bright star, usually the secondbrightest, of a constellation, as, b Aurigæ.(b) (Chem.) To distinguish one of two or more isomers; also, toindicate the position of substituting atoms or groups in certaincompounds; as, b-naphthol. With acids, it commonly indicates that thesubstituent is in union with the carbon atom next to that to whichthe carboxyl group is attached.
beta rays: Penetrating rays readily deflected by a magnetic or electricfield, emitted by radioactive substances, as radium. They consist ofnegatively charged particles or electrons, apparently the same inkind as those of the cathode rays, but having much higher velocities(about 35,000 to 180,000 miles per second).
betaine: A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and alsooccurring naturally in beetroot molasses and its residues, from whichit is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called alsolycine and oxyneurine. It has a sweetish taste.
betaught: Delivered; committed in trust. [Obs.]
bete: To better; to mend. See Beete. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bete noire: Something especially hated or dreaded; a bugbear.
beteela: An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc.[Obs.]
betel: A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which arechewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by theinhabitants of the East Indies. I is a woody climber with ovatemanynerved leaves.
betel nut: The nutlike seed of the areca palm, chewed in the East withbetel leaves (whence its name) and shell lime.
betelguese: A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder ofOrion. [Written also Betelgeux and Betelgeuse.]
bethabara wood: A highly elastic wood, used for fishing rods, etc. The tree isunknown, but it is thought to be East Indian.
bethink: To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection,reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generallyfollowed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before thesubject of thought.I have bethought me of another fault. Shak.The rest . . . may . . . bethink themselves, and recover. Milton.We bethink a means to break it off. Shak.
bethlehem: In the Ethiopic church, a small building attached to a churchedifice, in which the bread for the eucharist is made. Audsley.
bethought: imp. & p. p. of Bethink.
bethrall: To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall. [Obs.] Spenser.
bethumb: To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books. Poe.
bethump: To beat or thump soundly. Shak.
betide: To happen to; to befall; to come to ; as, woe betide thewanderer.What will betide the few Milton.
betitle: To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle. [Obs.] Carlyle.
beton: The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after theFrench fashion.
betongue: To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult.
betony: A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).
betook: of Betake.
betorn: Torn in pieces; tattered.
betoss: To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss. "Mybetossed soul." Shak.
betrayal: The act or the result of betraying.
betrayer: One who, or that which, betrays.
betrayment: Betrayal. [R.] Udall.
betrim: To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim.Shak.
betrothal: The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutualpromise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between thepersons betrothed; betrothment; affiance. "The feast of betrothal."Longfellow.
betrothment: The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed;betrothal.
betrust: To trust or intrust. [Obs.]
betrustment: The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted. [Obs.] Chipman.
betso: A small brass Venetian coin. [Obs.]
better: To become better; to improve. Carlyle.
betterment: An improvement of an estate which renders it better than mererepairing would do; -- generally used in the plural. [U. S.] Bouvier.
bettermost: Best. [R.] "The bettermost classes." Brougham.
bettong: A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia;the jerboa kangaroo.
bettor: One who bets; a better. Addison.
betty: A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open. [Written alsobettee.]The powerful betty, or the artful picklock. Arbuthnot.
betulin: A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer barkof the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar preparedtherefrom; -- called also birch camphor. Watts.
betumble: To throw into disorder; to tumble. [R.]From her betumbled couch she starteth. Shak.
betutor: To tutor; to instruct. Coleridge.
between: Intermediate time or space; interval. [Poetic & R.] Shak.
beurre: A beurré (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurré d'Anjou;Beurré Clairgeau.
bevel: To cut to a bevel angle; to slope the edge or surface of.
bevel gear: A kind of gear in which the two wheels working together lie indifferent planes, and have their teeth cut at right angles to thesurfaces of two cones whose apices coincide with the point where theaxes of the wheels would meet.
bevelment: The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equallyinclined to the including faces or adjacent planes.
bever: A light repast between meals; a lunch. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
bevile: A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel. Encyc.Brit.
bewail: To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wailover.Hath widowed and unchilded many a one, Which to this hour bewail theinjury. Shak.
bewailable: Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.
bewailer: One who bewails or laments.
bewailing: Wailing over; lamenting.-- Be*wail"ing*ly, adv.
bewailment: The act of bewailing.
bewake: To keep watch over; to keep awake. [Obs.] Gower.
beware: To avoid; to take care of; to have a care for. [Obs.] "Priest,beware your beard." Shak.To wish them beware the son. Milton.
bewash: To drench or souse with water. "Let the maids bewash the men."Herrick.
beweep: To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears. "His timelessdeath beweeping." Drayton.
bewet: To wet or moisten. Gay.
bewig: To cover (the head) with a wig. Hawthorne.
bewilder: To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plainpath; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confusegreatly.Lost and bewildered in the fruitless search. Addison.
bewildered: Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind.
bewilderedness: The state of being bewildered; bewilderment. [R.]
bewildering: Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewilderingdifficulties.-- Be*wil"der*ing*ly, adv.
bewinter: To make wintry. [Obs.]
bewit: A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to ahawk's legs.
bewitchedness: The state of being bewitched. Gauden.
bewitcher: One who bewitches.
bewitchery: The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm;fascination.There is a certain bewitchery or fascination in words. South.
bewitching: Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating;charming.-- Be*witch"ing*ly, adv.-- Be*witch"ing*ness, n.
bewrap: To wrap up; to cover. Fairfax.
bewray: To soil. See Beray.
bewrayer: One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer. [Obs. or Archaic]Addison.
bewrayment: Betrayal. [R.]
bewreck: To wreck. [Obs.]
bewreke: To wreak; to avenge. [Obs.] Ld. Berners.
bewrought: Embroidered. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
bey: A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions;also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey ofTunis.
beylic: The territory ruled by a bey.
beyond: Further away; at a distance; yonder.Lo, where beyond he lyeth languishing. Spenser.
bez-antler: The second branch of a stag's horn.
bezant: A circle in or, i. e., gold, representing the gold coin calledbezant. Burke.
bezel: The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object,as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set.
bezique: A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in thehand, when declared, score points.
bezoar: A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certainruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvianllama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and acertain remedy for eruptive, pestilential, or putrid diseases. Hence:Any antidote or panacea.
bezoardic: Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar.-- n.
bezonian: A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.Great men oft die by vile bezonians. Shak.
bezpopovtsy: A Russian sect. See Raskolnik.
bezzle: To plunder; to waste in riot. [Obs.]
bhang: An astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves andseed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked inthe East as a means of intoxication. See Hasheesh.
bhunder: An Indian monkey (Macacus Rhesus), protected by the Hindoos assacred. See Rhesus.
biacid: Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negativeatoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases. See Diacid.
biacuminate: Having points in two directions.
biangular: Having two angles or corners.
biangulous: Biangular. [R.]
biannual: Occurring twice a year; half-yearly; semiannual.
biantheriferous: Having two anthers.
biarticulate: Having, or consisting of, tow joints.
bias: In a slanting manner; crosswise; obliquely; diagonally; as, tocut cloth bias.
biauriculate: Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, andreptiles.
bib: An arctic fish (Gadus luscus), allied to the cod; -- calledalso pout and whiting pout.
bibacious: Addicted to drinking.
bibacity: The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling. Blount.
bibasic: Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive orbasic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids. See Dibasic.
bibb: A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3.
bibber: One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; atippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.
bibble-babble: Idle talk; babble. Shak.
bibbs: Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast tp supportthe trestletrees.
bibcock: A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle. Knight.
bibelot: A small decorative object without practical utility.
bibirine: See Bebeerine.
bibitory: Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling.
bible: A book with an authoritative exposition of some topic,respected by many experts on the field. Bible Society, an associationfor securing the multiplication and wide distribution of the Bible.-- Douay Bible. See Douay Bible.-- Geneva Bible. See under Geneva.
bibler: A great drinker; a tippler. [Written also bibbler andbibbeler.]
biblical: Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblicallearning; biblical authority.
biblicality: The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject. [R.]
biblically: According to the Bible.
biblicism: Learning or literature relating to the Bible. [R.]
biblicist: One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator ofreligious truth by the Scriptures.
bibliograph: Bibliographer.
bibliographer: One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.
bibliography: A history or description of books and manuscripts, with noticesof the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.
bibliolatry: Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholicdivine Coleridge. F. W. Newman.
bibliological: Relating to bibliology.
bibliomancy: A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages ofScripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerningfuture events.
bibliomania: A mania for acquiring books.
bibliomaniac: One who has a mania for books.-- a.
bibliomaniacal: Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac.
bibliopegic: Relating to the binding of books. [R.]
bibliopegist: A bookbinder.
bibliopegistic: Pertaining to the art of binding books. [R.] Dibdin.
bibliopegy: The art of binding books. [R.]
bibliophile: A lover of books.
bibliophilism: Love of books.
bibliophilist: A lover of books.
bibliophobia: A dread of books. [R.]
bibliopole: One who sells books.
bibliopolism: The trade or business of selling books.
bibliopolist: Same as Bibliopole.
bibliopolistic: Of or pertaining to bibliopolism. Dibdin.
bibliothec: A librarian.
bibliotheca: A library.
bibliothecal: Belonging to a library. Byrom.
bibliothecary: A librarian. [Obs.] Evelin.
bibliotheke: A library. [Obs.] Bale.
bibracteate: Furnished with, or having, two bracts.
bibulously: In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption. DeQuincey.
bicalcarate: Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.
bicameral: Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislativebranches. Bentham.
bicapsular: Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp.
bicarbonate: A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid isreplaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportionof the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in thenormal carbonates; an acid carbonate; -- sometimes calledsupercarbonate.
bicarinate: Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea ofgrasses.
bicaudal: Having, or terminating in, two tails.
bicaudate: Two-tailed; bicaudal.
bicched: Pecked; pitted; notched. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bicched bones, pecked,or notched, bones; dice.
bicentenary: Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as,a bicentenary celebration.-- n.
bicentennial: The two hundredth year or anniversary, or its celebration.
bicephalous: Having two heads.
biceps: A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularlyto a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh.
bichir: A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nileand other African rivers. See Brachioganoidei.
bichloride: A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or moreatoms of another element; -- called also dichloride. Bichloride ofmercury, mercuric chloride; -- sometimes called corrosive sublimate.
bicho: See Jigger.
bichromate: A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the otheringredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate.
bichromatize: To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate ofpotassium; as, bichromatized gelatine.
bicipital: Dividing into two parts at one extremity; having two heads ortwo supports; as, a bicipital tree.
bicipitous: Having two heads; bicipital. "Bicipitous serpents." Sir T.Browne.
bicker: A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.[Prov. Eng.]
bickerer: One who bickers.
bickerment: Contention. [Obs.] Spenser.
bickern: An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also,the beak or horn itself.
bicolligate: Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.
biconcave: Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebræ.
biconjugate: Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice. Gray.
biconvex: Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.
bicorporal: Having two bodies.
bicorporate: Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies.
bicostate: Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.
bicrenate: Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures arethemselves crenate.
bicrescentic: Having the form of a double crescent.
bicrural: Having two legs. Hooker.
bicuspid: One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between thecanines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw. SeeTooth, n.
bicyanide: See Dicyanide.
bicycle: A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other. It hasa saddle seat and is propelled by the rider's feet acting on cranksor levers.
bicycler: One who rides a bicycle.
bicyclic: Relating to bicycles.
bicycling: The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle.
bicyclism: The art of riding a bicycle.
bicyclist: A bicycler.
bicycular: Relating to bicycling.
bid: imp. & p. p. of Bid.
bidale: An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house,and there to contribute in charity for his relief. [Prov. Eng.]
biddable: Obedient; docile. [Scot.]
bidden: of Bid.
bidder: One who bids or offers a price. Burke.
biddery ware: A kind of metallic ware made in India. The material is acomposition of zinc, tin, and lead, in which ornaments of gold andsilver are inlaid or damascened. [Spelt also bidry, bidree, bedery,beder.]
bidding prayer: The prayer for the souls of benefactors, said before thesermon.
biddy: A name used in calling a hen or chicken. Shak.
bident: An instrument or weapon with two prongs.
bidental: Having two teeth. Swift.
bidentate: Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed.
bidigitate: Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.
biding: Residence; habitation. Rowe.
bield: A shelter. Same as Beild. [Scot.]
bielid: See Andromede.
biennial: Continuing for two years, and then perishing, as plants whichform roots and leaves the first year, and produce fruit the second.
biennially: Once in two years.
bier: A count of forty threads in the warp or chain of woolen cloth.Knight.
bierbalk: A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals.[Obs.] Homilies.
bifacial: Having the opposite surfaces alike.
bifarious: Pointing two ways, as leaves that grow only on opposite sidesof a branch; in two vertical rows.
bifariously: In a bifarious manner.
biferous: Bearing fruit twice a year.
bifid: Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening witha cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.
bifidate: See Bifid.
bifilar: Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilarsuspension; a bifilar balance. Bifilar micrometer (often called abifilar), an instrument form measuring minute distances or angles bymeans of two very minute threads (usually spider lines), one ofwhich, at least, is movable; -- more commonly called a filarmicrometer.
biflabellate: Flabellate on both sides.
biflagellate: Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.
bifocal: Having two foci, as some spectacle lenses.
bifold: Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak.
bifoliate: Having two leaves; two-leaved.
bifoliolate: Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves.
biforate: Having two perforations.
biforine: An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants ofthe order Araceæ. It has an opening at each end through whichraphides, generated inside, are discharged.
biforked: Bifurcate.
biform: Having two forms, bodies, or shapes. Croxall.
biformed: Having two forms. Johnson.
biformity: A double form.
biforn: Before. [Obs.]
biforous: See Biforate.
bifronted: Having two fronts. "Bifronted Janus." Massinger.
bifurcate: To divide into two branches.
bifurcation: A forking, or division into two branches.
bifurcous: See Bifurcate, a. [R.] Coles.
big: Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind."Bear interchanges in local use, now with barley, now with bigg." NewEnglish Dict.
big bend state: Tennessee; -- a nickname.
big-bellied: Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advancedin pregnancy.
big-wigged: characterized by pomposity of manner. [Eng.]
biga: A two-horse chariot.
bigam: A bigamist. [Obs.]
bigamist: One who is guilty of bigamy. Ayliffe.
bigamous: Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage.
bigamy: The offense of marrying one person when already legally marriedto another. Wharton.
bigeminate: Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end ofeach division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompoundleaf.
bigential: Including two tribes or races of men.
bigeye: A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large sizeof the eye.
bigg: See Big, n. & v.
biggen: To make or become big; to enlarge. [Obs. or Dial.] Steele.
bigger: , compar. of Big.
biggest: , superl. of Big.
biggin: A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.An old woman's biggin for a nightcap. Massinger.
bigha: A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre toan acre.
bighorn: The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis or Caprovis montana).
bight: A bend in a coast forming an open bay; as, the Bight of Benin.
biglandular: Having two glands, as a plant.
bigly: In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently.He brawleth bigly. Robynson (More's Utopia. )
bigness: The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk.
bignonia: A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs,having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers. B.capreolata is the cross vine of the Southern United States. Thetrumpet creeper was formerly considered to be of this genus.
bignoniaceous: Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe trumpet flower is an example.
bigot: Bigoted. [Obs.]In a country more bigot than ours. Dryden.
bigoted: Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinionpractice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, andilliberal toward the opinions of others. "Bigoted to strife." Byron.
bigotedly: In the manner of a bigot.
bigwig: A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society. [Jocose]In our youth we have heard him spoken of by the bigwigs with extremecondescension. Dickens.
bihydroguret: A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance.[Obs.]
bijou: A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and ofelegant workmanship.
bijoutry: Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.
bijugate: Having two pairs, as of leaflets.
bijugous: Bijugate.
bike: A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm. [Scot.] Sir W.Scott.
bikh: The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted fromAconitum ferox or other species of aconite
bilabiate: Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers.
bilaciniate: Doubly fringed.
bilalo: A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay ofManila.
biland: A byland. [Obs.] Holland.
bilander: A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting,or for use in canals, as in Holland.Why choose we, then, like bilanders to creep Along the coast, andland in view to keep Dryden.
bilateral: Of or pertaining to the two sides of a central area or organ,or of a central axis; as, bilateral symmetry in animals, where thereis a similarity of parts on the right and left sides of the body.
bilaterality: State of being bilateral.
bilberry: The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, itsedible bluish black fruit.There pinch the maids as blue as bilberry. Shak.
bilbo: A long bar or bolt of iron with sliding shackles, and a lock atthe end, to confine the feet of prisoners or offenders, esp. on boardof ships.Methought I lay Worse than the mutines in the bilboes. Shak.
bilboquet: The toy called cup and ball.
bilcock: The European water rail.
bildstein: Same as Agalmatolite.
bile: A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline inreaction, secreted by the liver. It passes into the intestines, whereit aids in the digestive process. Its characteristic constituents arethe bile salts, and coloring matters.
bilection: That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond thegeneral surface of a panel; a bolection.
bilestone: A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary. E. Darwin.
bilge: That part of a ship's hull or bottom which is broadest and mostnearly flat, and on which she would rest if aground.
bilgy: Having the smell of bilge water.
biliary: Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliaryacids; biliary ducts. Biliary calculus (Med.), a gallstone, or aconcretion formed in the gall bladder or its duct.
biliation: The production and excretion of bile.
biliferous: Generating bile.
bilifuscin: A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in oldbile. It is a derivative of bilirubin.
biliment: A woman's ornament; habiliment. [Obs.]
bilin: A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtainedfrom bile by the action of alcohol and ether. It is composed of amixture of the sodium salts of the bile acids.
bilinear: Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinearcoördinates.
bilingual: Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in twolanguages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary.-- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv.
bilingualism: Quality of being bilingual.The bilingualism of King's English. Earle.
bilinguar: See Bilingual.
bilinguist: One versed in two languages.
bilinguous: Having two tongues, or speaking two languages. [Obs.]
biliousness: The state of being bilious.
biliprasin: A dark green pigment found in small quantity in humangallstones.
bilirubin: A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in thatfrom carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.
biliteral: Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskritverb. Sir W. Jones.-- n.
biliteralism: The property or state of being biliteral.
biliverdin: A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin byoxidation.
bilk: To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, bynonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slipto; as, to bilk a creditor. Thackeray.
bill: A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal.Milton.
bill book: A book in which a person keeps an account of his notes, bills,bills of exchange, etc., thus showing all that he issues andreceives.
bill broker: One who negotiates the discount of bills.
billabong: In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; --sometimes called an anabranch. This is the sense of the word as usedin the Public Works Department; but the term has also been locallyapplied to mere back-waters forming stagnant pools and to certainwater channels arising from a source.
billage: and v. t. & i. Same as Bilge.
billard: An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish. [Written alsobillet and billit.]
billboard: A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed onthe bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of theanchor to rest on. Totten.
billed: Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used incomposition; as, broad-billed.
billet: To direct, by a ticket or note, where to lodge. Hence
billet-doux: A love letter or note.A lover chanting out a billet-doux. Spectator.
billethead: A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat,around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off.
billfish: A name applied to several distinct fishes
billhead: A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills orrendering accounts.
billhook: A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruninghedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called ahand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter.
billiard: Of or pertaining to the game of billiards. "Smooth as is abilliard ball." B. Jonson.
billiards: A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangulartable, bounded by elastic cushions. The player seeks to impel hisball with his cue so that it shall either strike (carom upon) twoother balls, or drive another ball into one of the pockets with whichthe table sometimes is furnished.
billing: Caressing; kissing.
billion: According to the French and American method of numeration, athousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method,a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000. See Numeration.
billman: One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax. "A billmanof the guard." Savile.
billon: An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copperor other base metal, used in coinage.
billot: Bullion in the bar or mass.
billow: To surge; to rise and roll in waves or surges; to undulate."The billowing snow." Prior.
billowy: Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into largewaves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows.And whitening down the many-tinctured stream, Descends the billowyfoam. Thomson.
billy: A slubbing or roving machine.
billy goat: A male goat. [Colloq.]
billyboy: A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel. [Eng.]
bilobate: Divided into two lobes or segments.
bilobed: Bilobate.
bilocation: Double location; the state or power of being in two places atthe same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of thesaints. Tylor.
bilocular: Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocularpericarp. Gray.
bilsted: See Sweet gum.
biltong: Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried. H. R. Haggard.
bimaculate: Having, or marked with, two spots.
bimana: Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man asa special order of Mammalia.
bimanous: Having two hands; two-handed.
bimarginate: Having a double margin, as certain shells.
bimastism: The condition of having two mammæ or teats.
bimedial: Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurableonly in power (as the side and diagonal of a square).
bimembral: Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence. J. W. Gibbs.
bimensal: See Bimonthly, a. [Obs. or R.]
bimestrial: Continuing two months. [R.]
bimetallic: Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (asgold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.
bimetallism: The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in thecurrency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition tomonometallism.
bimetallist: An advocate of bimetallism.
bimolecular: Pertaining to, or formed from, two molecules; as, a bimolecularreaction (a reaction between two molecules).
bimonthly: Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthlyvisits; bimonthly publications.-- n.
bimuscular: Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk.
bin: A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle forany commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin.
binal: Twofold; double. [R.] "Binal revenge, all this." Ford.
binarseniate: A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of thebase. Graham.
binary: Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterizedby two (things). Binary arithmetic, that in which numbers areexpressed according to the binary scale, or in which two figuresonly, 0 and 1, are used, in lieu of ten; the cipher multiplyingeverything by two, as in common arithmetic by ten. Thus, 1 is one; 10is two; 11 is three; 100 is four, etc. Davies & Peck.-- Binary compound (Chem.), a compound of two elements, or of anelement and a compound performing the function of an element, or oftwo compounds performing the function of elements.-- Binary logarithms, a system of logarithms devised by Euler forfacilitating musical calculations, in which 1 is logarithm of 2,instead of 10, as in the common logarithms, and the modulus 1.442695instead of .43429448.-- Binary measure (Mus.), measure divisible by two or four; commontime.-- Binary nomenclature (Nat. Hist.), nomenclature in which the namesdesignate both genus and species.-- Binary scale (Arith.), a uniform scale of notation whose ratio istwo.-- Binary star (Astron.), a double star whose members have arevolution round their common center of gravity.-- Binary theory (Chem.), the theory that all chemical compoundsconsist of two constituents of opposite and unlike qualities.
binate: Double; growing in pairs or couples. Gray.
binaural: Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears.
binbashi: A major in the Turkish army.
bind: Indurated clay, when much mixed with the oxide of iron. Kirwan.
bindery: A place where books, or other articles, are bound; abookbinder's establishment.
bindheimite: An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alterationof other ores, as from jamesonite.
binding: That binds; obligatory. Binding beam (Arch.), the main timberin double flooring.-- Binding joist (Arch.), the secondary timber in double-framedflooring.
binding post: A metallic post attached to electrical apparatus forconvenience in making connections.
binding screw: A set screw used to bind parts together, esp. one for making aconnection in an electrical circuit.
bindingly: So as to bind.
bindingness: The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality.Coleridge.
bindweed: A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C.Sepium); lesser bindweed (C. arvensis); the white, the blue, theSyrian, bindweed. The black bryony, or Tamus, is called blackbindweed, and the Smilax aspera, rough bindweed.The fragile bindweed bells and bryony rings. Tennyson.
bine: The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbingplant.
binervate: Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinalribs or nerves.
bing: A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood. "Potato bings." Burns. "Abing of corn." Surrey. [Obs. or Dial. Eng. & Scot.]
biniodide: Same as Diiodide.
bink: A bench. [North of Eng. & Scot.]
binnacle: A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compassof a ship, and a light to show it at night. Totten.
binny: A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile,and much esteemed for food.
binocle: A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as toenable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double-barreled field glass or an opera glass.
binocular: A binocular glass, whether opera glass, telescope, ormicroscope.
binocularly: In a binocular manner.
binoculate: Having two eyes.
binomial: An expression consisting of two terms connected by the signplus (+) or minus (-); as, a+b, or 7-3.
binominal: Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.
binominous: Binominal. [Obs.]
binotonous: Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry.
binous: Same as Binate.
binoxalate: A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of thebase; an acid oxalate.
binoxide: Same as Dioxide.
binturong: A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.
binucleolate: Having two nucleoli.
bioblast: Same as Bioplast.
biocellate: Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.
biochemistry: The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of theprocesses incidental to, and characteristic of, life.
biodynamics: The doctrine of vital forces or energy.
biogen: Bioplasm.
biogenetic: Pertaining to biogenesis.
biogenist: A believer in the theory of biogenesis.
biogeography: The branch of biology which deals with the geographicaldistribution of animals and plants. It includes both zoögeography andphytogeography. -- Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic (#), a. --Bi`o*ge`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
biognosis: The investigation of life.
biograph: An animated picture machine for screen projection; acinematograph.
biographer: One who writes an account or history of the life of aparticular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.
biographize: To write a history of the life of. Southey.
biography: Of or relating to biology.-- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
biologist: A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.
biology: The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats ofliving matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the studyof living tissue. It has to do with the origin, structure,development, function, and distribution of animals and plants.
biolysis: The destruction of life.
biolytic: Relating to the destruction of life.
biomagnetic: Relating to biomagnetism.
biomagnetism: Animal magnetism.
biometry: Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration ofhuman life.
bion: The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness andindependence of function, in distinction from the morphologicalindividual or morphon.
bionomy: Physiology. [R.] Dunglison.
biophotophone: An instrument combining a cinematograph and a phonograph sothat the moving figures on the screen are accompanied by theappropriate sounds.
bioplasm: A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposedto be essential to the functions of all living beings; the materialthrough which every form of life manifests itself; unalteredprotoplasm.
bioplasmic: Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm.
bioplast: A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and havingformative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast.
bioplastic: Bioplasmic.
biorgan: A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed withfunction; -- distinguished from idorgan.
bioscope: A view of life; that which gives such a view.
biostatics: The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition totheir organic or vital phenomena.
biostatistics: Vital statistics.
biotaxy: The classification of living organisms according to theirstructural character; taxonomy.
biotic: Relating to life; as, the biotic principle.
biotite: Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or darkgreen color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks. See Mica.
bipalmate: Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.
biparietal: Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from oneparietal fossa to the other.
biparous: Bringing forth two at a birth.
bipartible: Capable of being divided into two parts.
bipartient: Dividing into two parts.-- n.
bipartile: Divisible into two parts.
bipartition: The act of dividing into two parts, or of making twocorrespondent parts, or the state of being so divided.
biped: A two-footed animal, as man.
bipeltate: Having a shell or covering like a double shield.
bipennis: An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.
bipetalous: Having two petals.
bipinnaria: The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free-swimming stage.
bipinnatifid: Doubly pinnatifid.
biplane: An aëroplane with two main supporting surfaces one above theother.
biplicate: Twice folded together. Henslow.
biplicity: The state of being twice folded; reduplication. [R.] Bailey.
bipolar: Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell orcorpuscle.
bipolarity: Bipolar quality.
biprism: A prism whose refracting angle is very nearly 180 degrees.
bipunctate: Having two punctures, or spots.
bipunctual: Having two points.
bipupillate: Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it ofa different color, as in some butterflies.
bipyramidal: Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having apyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals.
biquadrate: The fourth power, or the square of the square. Thus 4x4=16, thesquare of 4, and 16x16=256, the biquadrate of 4.
biquadratic: Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power.Biquadratic equation (Alg.), an equation of the fourth degree, or anequation in some term of which the unknown quantity is raised to thefourth power.-- Biquadratic root of a number, the square root of the square rootof that number. Thus the square root of 81 is 9, and the square rootof 9 is 3, which is the biquadratic root of 81. Hutton.
biquintile: An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each otherby twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72degrees.
biramous: Having, or consisting of, two branches.
birch: Of or pertaining to the birch; birchen.
birchen: Of or relating to birch.He passed where Newark's stately tower Looks out from Yarrow'sbirchen bower. Sir W. Scott.
bird: A warm-blooded, feathered vertebrate provided with wings. SeeAves.
bird cherry: A shrub (Prunus Padus ) found in Northern and Central Europe.It bears small black cherries.
bird of paradise: The name of several very beautiful birds of the genus Paradiseaand allied genera, inhabiting New Guinea and the adjacent islands.The males have brilliant colors, elegant plumes, and often remarkabletail feathers.
bird pepper: A species of capsicum (Capsicum baccatum), whose small,conical, coral-red fruit is among the most piquant of all redpeppers.
bird-eyed: Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.
bird-witted: Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; nothaving the faculty of attention. Bacon.
birdbolt: A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them.Hence
birdcatcher: One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler.
birdcatching: The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.
birder: A birdcatcher.
birdie: A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name. Tennyson.
birdikin: A young bird. Thackeray.
birding: Birdcatching or fowling. Shak. Birding piece, a fowling piece.Shak.
birdlet: A little bird; a nestling.
birdlike: Resembling a bird.
birdlime: An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of themiddle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it.When a twig is smeared with this substance it will hold small birdswhich may light upon it. Hence
birdling: A little bird; a nestling.
birdman: A fowler or birdcatcher.
birdseed: Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feedingcaged birds.
birdwoman: An airwoman; an aviatress. [Colloq.]
birectangular: Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangularspherical triangle.
bireme: An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.
biretta: Same as Berretta.
birgander: See Bergander.
birk: A birch tree. [Prov. Eng.] "The silver birk." Tennyson.
birken: To whip with a birch or rod. [Obs.]
birkie: A lively or mettlesome fellow. [Jocular, Scot.] Burns.
birl: To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
birlaw: A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic orlocal law or by-law. [Written also byrlaw, birlie, birley.]
birr: To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels inmotion.
birrus: A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in theMiddle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders orover the head.
birse: A bristle or bristles. [Scot.]
birt: A fish of the turbot kind; the brill. [Written also burt, bret,or brut.] [Prov. Eng.]
birth: See Berth. [Obs.] De Foe.
birthday: Of or pertaining to the day of birth, or its anniversary; as,birthday gifts or festivities.
birthdom: The land of one's birth; one's inheritance. [R.] Shak.
birthing: Anything added to raise the sides of a ship. Bailey.
birthless: Of mean extraction. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
birthmark: Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth.Most part of this noble lineage carried upon their body for a naturalbirthmark, . . . a snake. Sir T. North.
birthnight: The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of thatnight in succeeding years.The angelic song in Bethlehem field, On thy birthnight, that sungthee Savior born. Milton.
birthplace: The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place oforigin or birth, in its more general sense. "The birthplace ofvalor." Burns.
birthright: Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person isentitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir,or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights orinheritance of the first born.Lest there be any . . . profane person, as Esau, who for one morselof meat sold his birthright. Heb. xii. 16.
birthroot: An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringentrootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties.
birthwort: A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to havemedicinal properties.
bis: Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be,repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.
bisa antelope: See Oryx.
bisaccate: Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches.
biscayan: Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain.-- n.
biscotin: A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweetbiscuit.
biscuit: A species of white, unglazed porcelain, in which vases,figures, and groups are formed in miniature. Meat biscuit, analimentary preparation consisting of matters extracted from meat byboiling, or of meat ground fine and combined with flour, so as toform biscuits.
biscutate: Resembling two bucklers placed side by side.
bise: A cold north wind which prevails on the northern coasts of theMediterranean and in Switzerland, etc.; -- nearly the same as themistral.
bisect: To divide into two equal parts.
bisection: Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts.
bisector: One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight linewhich bisects an angle.
bisectrix: The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of abiaxial crystal.
bisegment: One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.
biseptate: With two partitions or septa. Gray.
biserrate: Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in someleaves.
bisexous: Bisexual. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
bisexual: Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens andpistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes.
bisexuous: Bisexual.
biseye: of Besee. [Obs.] Chaucer. Evil biseye, ill looking. [Obs.]
bish: Same as Bikh.
bishop: To admit into the church by confirmation; to confirm; hence, toreceive formally to favor.
bishop sleeve: A wide sleeve, once worn by women.
bishop-stool: A bishop's seat or see.
bishopdom: Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate. "Divine right ofbishopdom." Milton.
bishoplike: Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop. Fulke.
bishoply: Bishoplike; episcopal. [Obs.]
bishopric: A plant of the genus Mitella; miterwort. Longfellow.
bisie: To busy; to employ. [Obs.]
bisilicate: A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio ofthe oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one.The bisilicates include many of the most common and importantminerals.
bisk: Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.King.
bismer: The fifteen-spined (Gasterosteus spinachia).
bismillah: An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans.[Written also Bizmillah.]
bismite: Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher.
bismuth: One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color,crystallizing in rhombohedrons. It is somewhat harder than lead, andrather brittle; masses show broad cleavage surfaces when brokenacross. It melts at 507º Fahr., being easily fused in the flame of acandle. It is found in a native state, and as a constituent of someminerals. Specific gravity 9.8. Atomic weight 207.5. Symbol Bi.
bismuthal: Containing bismuth.
bismuthic: Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when thiselement has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide.
bismuthiferous: Containing bismuth.
bismuthous: Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lowervalence.
bismuthyl: Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull whiteor yellowish color. [Written also bismuthite.]
bispinose: Having two spines.
bisque: Unglazed white porcelain.
bissell truck: A truck for railroad rolling stock, consisting of two ordinaryaxle boxes sliding in guides attached to a triangular frame; --called also pony truck.
bissextile: Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to themonth of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days. But one day added every fouryears is equivalent to six hours each year, which is 11 m. 14 s. morethan the excess of the real year. Hence, it is necessary to suppressthe bissextile day at the end of every century which is not divisibleby 400, while it is retained at the end of those which are divisibleby 400.
bisson: Purblind; blinding. [Obs.] "Bisson rheum." Shak.
bistipuled: Having two stipules.
bistort: An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta;snakeweed; adderwort. Its root is used in medicine as an astringent.
bistoury: A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, eitherstraight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the partto be divided, and cutting towards the surface.
bistre: See Bister.
bisulcate: Cloven; said of a foot or hoof.
bisulcous: Bisulcate. Sir T. Browne.
bisulphate: A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid isreplaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportionof the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in thenormal sulphates; an acid sulphate.
bisulphide: A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; adisulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently calledbisulphuret.
bisulphite: A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but halfthe hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite.
bisulphuret: See Bisulphide.
bit: To put a bridle upon; to put the bit in the mouth of.
bitake: To commend; to commit. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bitangent: Possessing the property of touching at two points.-- n.
bitartrate: A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half theacid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar.
bite: A blank on the edge or corner of a page, owing to a portion ofthe frisket, or something else, intervening between the type andpaper.
biternate: Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets.-- Bi*ter"nate*ly, adv. Gray.
bitheism: Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.
biting: That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic. "A bitingaffliction." "A biting jest." Shak.
biting in: The process of corroding or eating into metallic plates, bymeans of an acid. See Etch. G. Francis.
bitingly: In a biting manner.
bitless: Not having a bit or bridle.
bitstock: A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.
bitt: See Bitts.
bittacle: A binnacle. [Obs.]
bitten: of Bite.
bitter: AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts. Bitter end, thatpart of a cable which is abaft the bitts, and so within board, whenthe ship rides at anchor.
bitter spar: A common name of dolomite; -- so called because it containsmagnesia, the soluble salts of which are bitter. See Dolomite.
bitterbump: the butterbump or bittern.
bitterful: Full of bitterness. [Obs.]
bittering: A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern.
bitterish: Somewhat bitter. Goldsmith.
bitterling: A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus).
bitterly: In a bitter manner.
bittern: A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, ofvarious species.
bitternut: The swamp hickory (Carya amara). Its thin-shelled nuts arebitter.
bitterroot: A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but withfleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho,Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains andriver. The Indians call both the plant and the river Spæt'lum.
bitters: A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, orroot is steeped.
bittersweet: Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet witha bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful.
bitterweed: A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiæfolia); Roman worm wood.Gray.
bitterwood: A West Indian tree (Picræna excelsa) from the wood of which thebitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained.
bitterwort: The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bittertaste.
bittock: A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; ashort distance. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
bitts: A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the forepart of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides atanchor, or in warping. Other bitts are used for belaying (belayingbitts), for sustaining the windlass (carrick bitts, winch bitts, orwindlass bitts), to hold the pawls of the windlass (pawl bitts) etc.
bitume: Bitumen. [Poetic] May.
bitumed: Smeared with bitumen. [R.] "The hatches caulked and bitumed."Shak.
bitumen process: Any process in which  advantage is taken of the fact thatprepared bitumen is rendered insoluble by exposure to light, as inphotolithography.
bituminate: To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen."Bituminated walls of Babylon." Feltham.
bituminiferous: Producing bitumen. Kirwan.
bituminization: The process of bituminizing. Mantell.
bituminize: To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.
bituminous: Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen;containing bitumen.Near that bituminous lake where Sodom flamed. Milton.Bituminous coal, a kind of coal which yields, when heated, aconsiderable amount of volatile bituminous matter. It burns with ayellow smoky flame.-- Bituminous limestone, a mineral of a brown or black color,emitting an unpleasant smell when rubbed. That of Dalmatia is socharged with bitumen that it may be cut like soap.-- Bituminous shale, an argillaceous shale impregnated with bitumen,often accompanying coal.
biuret: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formedby heating urea. It is intermediate between urea and cyanuric acid.
bivalency: The quality of being bivalent.
bivalent: Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms ofhydrogen; dyad.
bivalve: A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates orvalves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which isusually strengthened by prominences called teeth. The shell is closedby the contraction of two transverse muscles attached to the innersurface, as in the clam, -- or by one, as in the oyster. SeeMollusca.
bivalved: Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve.
bivalvous: Bivalvular.
bivalvular: Having two valves.
bivaulted: Having two vaults or arches.
bivector: A term made up of the two parts
biventral: (Anat.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral,or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum.
bivial: Of or relating to the bivium.
bivious: Having, or leading, two ways.Bivious theorems and Janus-faced doctrines. Sir T. Browne.
bivium: One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, indistinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes threeambulacra.
biweekly: Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly.-- n.
biwreye: To bewray; to reveal. [Obs.]
bizantine: See Byzantine.
bizarre: Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant;grotesque. C. Kingsley.
bizet: The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, whichprojects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdleand the table. See Brilliant, n.
blab: To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; topublish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion. Udall.And yonder a vile physician blabbing The case of his patient.Tennyson.
blabber: A tattler; a telltale.
black: Sullenly; threateningly; maliciously; so as to produceblackness.
black art: The art practiced by conjurers and witches; necromancy;conjuration; magic.
black death: A pestilence which ravaged Europe and Asia in the fourteenthcentury.
black flags: An organization composed originally of Chinese rebels that hadbeen driven into Tonkin by the suppression of the Taiping rebellion,but later increased by bands of pirates and adventurers. It took aprominent part in fighting the French during their hostilities withAnam, 1873-85.
black friar: A friar of the Dominican order; -- called also predicant andpreaching friar; in France, Jacobin. Also, sometimes, a Benedictine.
black friday: Any Friday on which a public disaster has occurred, as
black hamburg: A sweet and juicy variety of European grape, of a dark purplishblack color, much grown under glass in northern latitudes.
black hand: A Spanish anarchistic society, many of the members of whichwere imprisoned in 1883.
black hole: A dungeon or dark cell in a prison; a military lock-up orguardroom; -- now commonly with allusion to the cell (the Black Hole)in a fort at Calcutta, into which 146 English prisoners were thrustby the nabob Suraja Dowla on the night of June 20, 17656, and inwhich 123 of the prisoners died before morning from lack of air.A discipline of unlimited autocracy, upheld by rods, and ferules, andthe black hole. H. Spencer.
black lead: Plumbago; graphite.It leaves a blackish mark somewhat likelead. See Graphite.
black letter: The old English or Gothic letter, in which the Early Englishmanuscripts were written, and the first English books were printed.It was conspicuous for its blackness. See Type.
black monk: A Benedictine monk.
black pudding: A kind of sausage made of blood, suet, etc., thickened withmeal.And fat black puddings, -- proper food, For warriors that delight inblood. Hudibras.
black salts: Crude potash. De Colange.
black spanish: One of an old and well-known Mediterranean breed of domesticfowls with glossy black plumage, blue legs and feet, bright red comband wattles, and white face. They are remarkable as egg layers.
black vomit: A copious vomiting of dark-colored matter; or the substance sodischarged; -- one of the most fatal symptoms in yellow fever.
black-a-vised: Dark-visaged; swart.
black-browed: Having black eyebrows. Hence
black-eyed: Having black eyes. Dryden.
black-faced: Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect.
black-hearted: Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.
black-jack: A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; -- called also false galena. See Blende.
black-mouthed: Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous.
blackamoor: A negro or negress. Shak.
blackband: An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerablecarbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.
blackberry: The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, theplant itself. Rubus fruticosus is the blackberry of England; R.villosus and R. Canadensis are the high blackberry and low blackberryof the United States. There are also other kinds.
blackbird: In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing birdwith a fin note; the merle. In America the name is given to severalbirds, as the Quiscalus versicolor, or crow blackbird; the Agelæusphoeniceus, or red-winged blackbird; the cowbird; the rusty grackle,etc. See Redwing.
blackbirder: A slave ship; a slaver. [Colloq.]  F. T. Bullen.
blackboard: A broad board painted black, or any black surface on whichwriting, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be donewith chalk or crayons. It is much used in schools.
blackburnian warbler: A beautiful warbler of the United States (DendroicaBlackburniæ). The male is strongly marked with orange, yellow, andblack on the head and neck, and has an orange-yellow breast.
blackcap: An apple roasted till black, to be served in a dish of boiledcustard.
blackcoat: A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimescalled a redcoat or a bluecoat.
blackcock: The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); -- so called by sportsmen. The female is called gray hen. See Heathgrouse.
blacken: To grow black or dark.
blackener: One who blackens.
blackfeet: A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting thecountry from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but nowmuch reduced in numbers.
blackfin: See Bluefin.
blackfish: A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of severalspecies. The most common is G. melas. Also sometimes applied to otherwhales of larger size.
blackfoot: Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian.-- n.
blackguard: To revile or abuse in scurrilous language. Southey.
blackguardism: The conduct or language of a blackguard; rufflanism.
blackguardly: In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive;scurrilous; ruffianly.
blackhead: The scaup duck.
blackheart: A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.
blackish: Somewhat black.
blacklead: To coat or to polish with black lead.
blacklist: To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, orpunishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolventor untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutualprotection; as, to blacklist a workman who has been discharged. SeeBlack list, under Black, a.If you blacklist us, we will boycott you. John Swinton.
blackly: In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly;atrociously. "Deeds so blackly grim and horrid." Feltham.
blackmail: Black rent, or rent paid in corn, flesh, or the lowest coin, aopposed to "white rent", which paid in silver. To levy blackmail, toextort money by threats, as of injury to one's reputation.
blackmailer: One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by blackmailing.
blackmailing: The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears ofinjury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.
blackmoor: See Blackamoor.
blackness: The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousnessor enormity in wickedness.They're darker now than blackness. Donne.
blackpoll: A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).
blackroot: See Colicroot.
blacksalter: One who,makes crude potash, or black salts.
blacksmith: A fish of the Pacific coast (Chromis, or Heliastes,punctipinnis), of a blackish color.
blacktail: A fish; the ruff or pope.
blackwater state: Nebraska; -- a nickname alluding to the dark color of the waterof its rivers, due to the presence of a black vegetable mold in thesoil.
blackwood: A name given to several dark-colored timbers. The East Indianblack wood is from the tree Dalbergia latifolia. Balfour.
blackwork: Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction fromthat wrought by whitesmiths. Knight.
bladder: A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of somefluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- appliedespecially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal, or whentaken out and inflated with air.
bladderwort: A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, whichusually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves. Theseserve as traps for minute animals. See Ascidium.
bladdery: Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder.
blade: The principal rafters of a roof. Weale.
bladebone: The scapula. See Blade, 4.
bladed: Composed of long and narrow plates, shaped like the blade of aknife.
bladefish: A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); theribbon fish.
bladesmith: A sword cutler. [Obs.]
blady: Consisting of blades. [R.] "Blady grass." Drayton.
blae: Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored. [Scot.]
blaeberry: The bilberry. [North of Eng. & Scot.]
blague: Mendacious boasting; falcefood; humbug.
blain: A bladder growing on the root of the tongue of a horse, againstthe windpipe, and stopping the breath.
blamable: Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible;censurable; blameworthy.-- Blam"a*ble*ness, n.-- Blam"a*bly (, adv.
blameless: Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; --sometimes followed by of.A bishop then must be blameless. 1 Tim. iii. 2.Blameless still of arts that polish to deprave. Mallet.We will be blameless of this thine oath. Josh. ii. 17.
blamelessly: In a blameless manner.
blamelessness: The quality or state of being blameless; innocence.
blamer: One who blames. Wyclif.
blameworthy: Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible.-- Blame"wor`thi*ness, n.
blancard: A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which ispartly blanches before it is woven.
blanch: To bleach by excluding the light, as the stalks or leaves ofplants, by earthing them up or tying them together.
blanch holding: A mode of tenure by the payment of a small duty in white rent(silver) or otherwise.
blanchard lathe: A kind of wood-turning lathe for making noncircular andirregular forms, as felloes, gun stocks, lasts, spokes, etc., after agiven pattern. The pattern and work rotate on parallel spindles inthe same direction with the same speed, and the work is shaped by arapidly rotating cutter whose position is varied by the patternacting as a cam upon a follower wheel traversing slowly along thepattern.
blancher: One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one whoanneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for thispurpose.
blanchimeter: An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride oflime and potash; a chlorometer. Ure.
blancmange: A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, seamoss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, withmild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold.
blancmanger: A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon,fish, etc. [Obs.] Chaucer.
blandation: Flattery. [Obs.]
blandiloquence: Mild, flattering speech.
blandise: To blandish any one. [Obs.] Chaucer.
blandisher: One who uses blandishments.
blandishment: The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affectionor kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artfulcaresses; cajolery; allurement.Cowering low with blandishment. Milton.Attacked by royal smiles, by female blandishments. Macaulay.
blandly: In a bland manner; mildly; suavely.
blandness: The state or quality of being bland.
blank: A piece of metal prepared to be made into something by afurther operation, as a coin, screw, nuts.
blanket: A piece of rubber, felt, or woolen cloth, used in the tympan tomake it soft and elastic.
blanket clause: A clause, as in a blanket mortgage or policy, that includes agroup or class of things, rather than a number mentioned individuallyand having the burden, loss, or the like, apportioned among them.
blanket stitch: A buttonhole stitch worked wide apart on the edge of material,as blankets, too thick to hem.
blanketing: One that covers a group or class of things or propertiesinstead of one or more things mentioned individually, as where amortgage secures various debts as a group, or subjects a group orclass of different pieces of property to one general lien.
blankness: The state of being blank.
blanquette: A white fricassee.
blanquillo: A large fish of Florida and the W. Indies (Caulolatiluschrysops). It is red, marked with yellow.
blare: To sound loudly and somewhat harshly. "The trumpet blared."Tennyson.
blarney: Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery. [Colloq.] Blarney stone, astone in Blarney castle, Ireland, said to make those who kiss itproficient in the use of blarney.
blase: Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency ofenjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.
blaspheme: To utter blasphemy.He that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath neverforgiveness. Mark iii. 29.
blasphemer: One who blasphemes.And each blasphemer quite escape the rod, Because the insult's not onman, but God Pope.
blasphemous: Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anythingimpiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containingblasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature."Blasphemous publications." Porteus.Nor from the Holy One of Heaven Refrained his tongue blasphemous.Milton.
blasphemously: In a blasphemous manner.
blast lamp: A lamp provided with some arrangement for intensifyingcombustion by means of a blast.
blast pipe: The exhaust pipe of a steam engine, or any pipe deliveringsteam or air, when so constructed as to cause a blast.
blastema: The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; theprimitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows.
blastemal: Relating to the blastema; rudimentary.
blastematic: Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal.
blaster: One who, or that which, blasts or destroys.
blastide: A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursorof the nucleus.
blastment: A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause.[Obs.] Shak.
blastocarpous: Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove. Brande & C.
blastocoele: The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity.
blastocyst: The germinal vesicle.
blastoderm: The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo isdeveloped.
blastogenesis: Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding.
blastoid: One of the Blastoidea.
blastoidea: One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoicrocks; pentremites. They are so named on account of their budlikeform.
blastomere: One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum.Balfour.
blastophore: That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted intospermatoblasts, but carries them.
blastopore: The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, orarchenteron.
blastosphere: The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of theblastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.
blastostyle: In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special functionis to produce medusoid buds. See Hydroidea, and Athecata.
blastula: That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outercells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm.
blastule: Same as Blastula.
blat: To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senselessnoise; to talk inconsiderately. [Low]
blatancy: Blatant quality.
blatant: Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring;disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly. "Harsh andblatant tone." R. H. Dana.A monster, which the blatant beast men call. Spenser.Glory, that blatant word, which haunts some military minds like thebray of the trumpet. W. Irving.
blatantly: In a blatant manner.
blather: To talk foolishly, or nonsensically.  G. Eliot.
blatherskite: A blustering, talkative fellow. [Local slang, U. S.] Barllett.
blatter: To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; topatter. [Archaic] "The rain blattered." Jeffrey.They procured . . . preachers to blatter against me, . . . so thatthey had place and time to belie me shamefully. Latimer.
blatteration: Blattering.
blatterer: One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster.
blattering: Senseless babble or boasting.
blatteroon: A senseless babbler or boaster. [Obs.] "I hate suchblatteroons." Howell.
blaubok: The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue.
blay: A fish. See Bleak, n.
blaze: A white spot on the forehead of a horse.
blazer: One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad. "Blazers ofcrime." Spenser.
blazing: Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches. SirW. Scott. Blazing star. (a) A comet. [Obs.] (b) A brilliant center ofattraction. (c) (Bot.) A name given to several plants; as, toChamælirium luteum of the Lily family; Liatris squarrosa; and Aletrisfarinosa, called also colicroot and star grass.
blazon: To describe in proper terms (the figures of heraldic devices);also, to delineate (armorial bearings); to emblazon.The coat of , arms, which I am not herald enough to blazon intoEnglish. Addison.
blazoner: One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one whoblazons coats of arms; a herald. Burke.
blazonment: The act or blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment.
blea: The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; thealburnum or sapwood.
bleaberry: See Blaeberry.
bleach: To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from;to blanch; to whiten.The destruction of the coloring matters attached to the bodies to bebleached is effected either by the action of the air and light, ofchlorine, or of sulphurous acid. Ure.Immortal liberty, whose look sublime Hath bleached the tyrant's cheekin every varying clime. Smollett.
bleached: Whitened; make white.Let their bleached bones, and blood's unbleaching stain, Long markthe battlefield with hideous awe. Byron.
bleacher: One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, bybleaching.
bleachery: A place or an establishment where bleaching is done.
bleaching: The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains;esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents. Ure.Bleaching powder, a powder for bleaching, consisting of chloride oflime, or some other chemical or chemicals.
bleak: A small European river fish (Leuciscus alburnus), of the familyCyprinidæ; the blay. [Written also blick.]
bleaky: Bleak. [Obs.] Dryden.
blear: To make somewhat sore or watery, as the eyes; to dim, or blur,as the sight. Figuratively
bleared: Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum.-- Blear"ed*ness (, n.Dardanian wives, With bleared visages, come forth to view The issueof the exploit. Shak.
bleareye: A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation ofthe margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter. Dunglison.
bleareyedness: The state of being blear-eyed.
bleary: Somewhat blear.
bleat: To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry likea sheep or calf.Then suddenly was heard along the main, To low the ox, to bleat thewoolly train. PopeThe ewe that will not hear her lamb when it baas, will never answer acalf when he bleats. Shak.
bleater: One who bleats; a sheep.In cold, stiff soils the bleaters oft complain Of gouty ails. Dyer.
bleating: Crying as a sheep does.Then came the shepherd back with his bleating flocks from theseaside. Longfellow.
bleb: A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; ablister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc.Arsenic abounds with air blebs. Kirwan.
blebby: Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.
bled: imp. & p. p. of Bleed.
blee: Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form. [Archaic]For him which is so bright of blee. Lament. of Mary Magd.That boy has a strong blee of his father. Forby.
bleeding: Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also,expressing anguish or compassion.
blemish: Any mark of deformity or injury, whether physical or moral;anything; that diminishes beauty, or renders imperfect that which isotherwise well formed; that which impairs reputation.He shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of thefirst year without blemish. Lev. xiv. 10.The reliefs of an envious man are those little blemishes andimperfections that discover themselves in an illustrious character.Spectator.
blemishless: Without blemish; spotless.A life in all so blemishless. Feltham.
blemishment: The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage;impairment.For dread of blame and honor's blemishment. Spenser.
blench: A looking aside or askance. [Obs.]These blenches gave my heart another youth. Shak.
blench holding: See Blanch holding.
blend: To mingle; to mix; to unite intimately; to pass or shadeinsensibly into each other, as colors.There is a tone of solemn and sacred feeling that blends with ourconviviality. Irving.
blender: One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, usedin blending.
blending: The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingletogether while wet, and shade into each other insensibly. Weale.
blendous: Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende.
blendwater: A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers areaffected. Crabb.
blenheim spaniel: A small variety of spaniel, kept as a pet.
blenk: To blink; to shine; to look. [Obs.]
blennogenous: Generating mucus.
blenny: A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidæ; -- socalled from its coating of mucus. The species are numerous.
blent: Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.Rider and horse, friend, foe, in one red burial blent. Byron.
blepharitis: Inflammation of the eyelids. -- Bleph`a*rit"ic (#), a.
blesbok: A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a largewhite spot on the forehead.
blessed: Beatified.
blessed thistle: See under Thistle.
blessedly: Happily; fortunately; joyfully.We shall blessedly meet again never to depart. Sir P. Sidney.
blessedness: The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss;heavenly joys; the favor of God.The assurance of a future blessedness. Tillotson.Single blessedness, the unmarried state. "Grows, lives, and dies insingle blessedness." Shak.
blesser: One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing.
blessing: A gift. [A Hebraism] Gen. xxxiii. 11.
blest: Blessed. "This patriarch blest." Milton.White these blest sounds my ravished ear assail. Trumbull.
blet: A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.
bletonism: The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs andcurrents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France.
bletting: A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit. Lindley.
blew: of Blow.
bleyme: An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole andthe bone. [Obs.]
bleynte: of Blench. [Obs.] Chaucer.
blickey: A tin dinner pail. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.
blight: To be affected by blight; to blast; as, this vine neverblights.
blighting: Causing blight.
blightingly: So as to cause blight.
blin: To stop; to cease; to desist. [Obs.] Spenser.
blind: Abortive; failing to produce flowers or fruit; as, blind buds;blind flowers. Blind alley, an alley closed at one end; a cul-de-sac.-- Blind axle, an axle which turns but does not communicate motion.Knight.-- Blind beetle, one of the insects apt to fly against people, esp.at night.-- Blind cat (Zoöl.), a species of catfish (Gronias nigrolabris),nearly destitute of eyes, living in caverns in Pennsylvania.-- Blind coal, coal that burns without flame; anthracite coal.Simmonds.-- Blind door, Blind window, an imitation of a door or window,without an opening for passage or light. See Blank door or window,under Blank, a.-- Blind level (Mining), a level or drainage gallery which has avertical shaft at each end, and acts as an inverted siphon. Knight.-- Blind nettle (Bot.), dead nettle. See Dead nettle, under Dead.-- Blind shell (Gunnery), a shell containing no charge, or one thatdoes not explode.-- Blind side, the side which is most easily assailed; a weak orunguarded side; the side on which one is least able or disposed tosee danger. Swift.-- Blind snake (Zoöl.), a small, harmless, burrowing snake, of thefamily Typhlopidæ, with rudimentary eyes.-- Blind spot (Anat.), the point in the retina of the eye where theoptic nerve enters, and which is insensible to light.-- Blind tooling, in bookbinding and leather work, the indentedimpression of heated tools, without gilding; -- called also blanktooling, and blind blocking.-- Blind wall, a wall without an opening; a blank wall.
blind reader: A post-office clerk whose duty is to decipher obscureaddresses.
blindage: A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach,formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework.
blinder: One of the leather screens on a bridle, to hinder a horse fromseeing objects at the side; a blinker.
blindfish: A small fish (Amblyopsis spelæus) destitute of eyes, found inthe waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky. Related fishes fromother caves take the same name.
blindfold: To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing.And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face. Lukexxii. 64.
blinding: Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or ofunderstanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow.
blindly: Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought,investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own.By his imperious mistress blindly led. Dryden.
blindness: State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively.Darwin. Color blindness, inability to distinguish certain color. SeeDaltonism.
blindstory: The triforium as opposed to the clearstory.
blindworm: A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguisfragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; theslowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder.Newts and blindworms do no wrong. Shak.
blink: The dazzling whiteness about the horizon caused by thereflection of light from fields of ice at sea; ice blink.
blink beer: Beer kept unbroached until it is sharp. Crabb.
blink-eyed: Habitually winking. Marlowe.
blinker: A kind of goggles, used to protect the eyes form glare, etc.
blirt: A gust of wind and rain. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
bliss: Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree ofhappiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.An then at last our bliss Full and perfect is. Milton.
blissful: Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happyin the highest degree. "Blissful solitude." Milton.-- Bliss"ful*ly, adv.-- Bliss"ful*ness, n.
blissless: Destitute of bliss. Sir P. Sidney.
blissom: To be lustful; to be lascivious. [Obs.]
blister: To be affected with a blister or blisters; to have a blisterform on.Let my tongue blister. Shak.
blistery: Full of blisters. Hooker.
blite: A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx. Blitum capitatumis the strawberry blite.
blithe: Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithespirit.The blithe sounds of festal music. Prescott.A daughter fair, So buxom, blithe, and debonair. Milton.
blitheful: Gay; full of gayety; joyous.
blithely: In a blithe manner.
blitheness: The state of being blithe. Chaucer.
blithesome: Cheery; gay; merry.The blithesome sounds of wassail gay. Sir W. Scott.-- Blithe"some*ly, adv.-- Blithe"some*ness, n.
blive: Quickly; forthwith. [Obs.] Chaucer.
blizzard: A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fineand blinding snow; a furious blast. [U. S.]
bloat: To grow turgid as by effusion of liquid in the cellular tissue;to puff out; to swell. Arbuthnot.
bloated: Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presenceof water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face. Also,puffed up with pride; pompous.
bloatedness: The state of being bloated.
bloater: The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and halfdried; -- called also bloat herring.
blob: A small fresh-water fish (Uranidea Richardsoni); the miller'sthumb.
blobber: A bubble; blubber. [Low] T. Carew. Blobber lip, a thick,protruding lip.His blobber lips and beetle brows commend. Dryden.
blobber-lipped: Having thick lips. "A blobber-lipped shell." Grew.
blocage: The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry.
block: The perch on which a bird of prey is kept.
block book: A book printed from engraved wooden blocks instead of movabletypes.
block chain: A chain in which the alternate links are broad blocks connectedby thin side links pivoted to the ends of the blocks, used withsprocket wheels to transmit power, as in a bicycle.
block signal: One of the danger signals or safety signals which guide themovement of trains in a block system. The signal is often so coupledwith a switch that act of opening or closing the switch operates thesignal also.
block system: A system by which the track is divided into short sections, asof three or four miles, and trains are so run by the guidance ofelectric, or combined electric and pneumatic, signals that no trainenters a section or block until the preceding train has left it, asin absolute blocking, or that a train may be allowed to followanother into a block as long as it proceeds with excessive caution,as in permissive blocking.
block tin: See under Tin.
blockader: A vessel employed in blockading.
blockage: The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.
blockhead: A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding.The bookful blockhead, ignorantly read, With loads of learned lumberin his head. Pope.
blockheaded: Stupid; dull.
blockheadism: That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity. Carlyle.
blockhouse: An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for militarydefense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upperstory projecting over the lower, or so placed upon it as to have itssides make an angle wit the sides of the lower story, thus enablingthe defenders to fire downward, and in all directions; -- formerlymuch used in America and Germany.
blocking course: The finishing course of a wall showing above a cornice.
blockish: Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull."Blockish Ajax." Shak.-- Block"ish*ly, adv.-- Block"ish*ness, n.
blocklike: Like a block; stupid.
bloedite: A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium.
blomary: See Bloomery.
blond metal: A variety of clay ironstone, in Staffordshire, England, usedfor making tools.
blonde: A kind of silk lace originally of the color of raw silk, nowsometimes dyed; -- called also blond lace.
blondness: The state of being blond. G. Eliot.
blood: Descent from parents of recognized breed; excellence or purityof breed.
blood vessel: Any vessel or canal in which blood circulates in an animal, asan artery or vein.
blood-boltered: Having the hair matted with clotted blood. [Obs. & R.]The blood-boltered Banquo smiles upon me. Shak.
blood-shotten: Bloodshot. [Obs.]
bloodbird: An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- socalled from the bright red color of the male bird.
blooded: Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; ofapproved breed; of the best stock.
bloodflower: A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, namedHæmanthus, of the Amaryllis family. The juice of H. toxicarius isused by the Hottentots to poison their arrows.
bloodguilty: Guilty of murder or bloodshed. "A bloodguilty life." Fairfax.-- Blood"guilt`i*ness (, n.-- Blood"guilt`less, a.
bloodhound: A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, andpendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell. It is employedto recover game or prey which has escaped wounded from a hunter, andfor tracking criminals. Formerly it was used for pursuing runawayslaves. Other varieties of dog are often used for the same purposeand go by the same name. The Cuban bloodhound is said to be a varietyof the mastiff.
bloodily: In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood.
bloodlet: bleed; to let blood. Arbuthnot.
bloodletter: One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist.
bloodletting: The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by openinga vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied tovenesection.
bloodroot: A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap,and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called alsopuccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint.It has acrid emetic properties, and the rootstock is used as astimulant expectorant. See Sanguinaria.
bloodshed: The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act ofshedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder.
bloodshedder: One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer.
bloodshedding: Bloodshed. Shak.
bloodshot: Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vesselsturgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated.His eyes were bloodshot, . . . and his hair disheveled. Dickens.
bloodstick: A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used tostrike the fleam into the vein. Youatt.
bloodstroke: Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion inthe brain. Dunglison.
bloodsucker: Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudomedicinalis), and related species.
bloodthirsty: Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous.-- Blood"thirst`i*ness (n.
bloodulf: The European bullfinch.
bloodwood: A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.
bloodwort: A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock. The name isapplied also to bloodroot (Sanguinaria Canadensis), and to anextensive order of plants (Hæmodoraceæ), the roots of many species ofwhich contain a red coloring matter useful in dyeing.
bloody: To stain with blood. Overbury.
bloody flux: The dysentery, a disease in which the flux or discharge fromthe bowels has a mixture of blood. Arbuthnot.
bloody hand: A red hand, as in the arms of Ulster, which is now thedistinguishing mark of a baronet of the United Kingdom.
bloody sweat: A sweat accompanied by a discharge of blood; a disease, calledsweating sickness, formerly prevalent in England and other countries.
bloody-minded: Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty. Dryden.
bloodybones: A terrible bugbear.
bloom: A popular term for a bright-hued variety of some minerals; as,the rose-red cobalt bloom.
bloomary: See Bloomery.
bloomery: A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of bloomsis made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.
blooming: The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron.
bloomingly: In a blooming manner.
bloomingness: A blooming condition.
bloomless: Without bloom or flowers. Shelley.
blooth: Bloom; a blossoming. [Prov. Eng.]All that blooth means heavy autumn work for him and his hands. T.Hardy.
blore: The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast. [Obs.]A most tempestuous blore. Chapman.
blosmy: Blossomy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
blossomless: Without blossoms.
blossomy: Full of blossoms; flowery.
blot: To take a blot; as, this paper blots easily.
blotch: A large pustule, or a coarse eruption.Foul scurf and blotches him defile. Thomson.
blotched: Marked or covered with blotches.To give their blotched and blistered bodies ease. Drayton.
blotchy: Having blotches.
blote: To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat.[Obs.]
blotless: Without blot.
blotter: A wastebook, in which entries of transactions are made as theytake place.
blottesque: Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted;wanting in delineation. Ruskin.
blotting paper: A kind of thick, bibulous, unsized paper, used to absorbsuperfluous ink from freshly written manuscript, and thus preventblots.
blouse: A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, wornespecially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of anymaterial, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army.
blow: To flower; to blossom; to bloom.How blows the citron grove. Milton.
blow valve: See Snifting valve.
blow-off: as, a blow-off cock or pipe.
blow-out: The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by ablast of steam.
blowball: The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight toblow away. B. Jonson.
blower: A device for producing a current of air; as
blowfly: Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs oryoung larvæ (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animalproducts.
blowgun: A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, throughwhich an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force ofthe breath. It is a weapon much used by certain Indians of Americaand the West Indies; -- called also blowpipe, and blowtube. SeeSumpitan.
blowhole: An air hole in a casting.
blown: Opened; in blossom or having blossomed, as a flower. Shak.
blowpoint: A child's game. [Obs.]
blowse: See Blowze.
blowth: A blossoming; a bloom. [Obs. or Archaic] "In the blowth andbud." Sir W. Raleigh.
blowtube: A long wrought iron tube, on the end of which the workmangathers a quantity of "metal" (melted glass), and through which heblows to expand or shape it; -- called also blowing tube, andblowpipe.
blowy: Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland.
blowze: A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench. [Obs.] Shak.
blowzed: Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced;blowzy; disordered.Huge women blowzed with health and wind. Tennyson.
blowzy: Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.
blub: To swell; to puff out, as with weeping. [Obs.]
blubber: A large sea nettle or medusa.
blubbered: Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip. Spenser.
blubbering: The act of weeping noisily.He spake well save that his blubbering interrupted him. Winthrop.
blucher: A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blücher.Thackeray.
bludgeon: A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier thatthe other, used as an offensive weapon.
blue: Low spirits; a fit of despondency; melancholy. [Colloq.] Berlinblue, Prussian blue.-- Mineral blue. See under Mineral.-- Prussian blue. See under Prussian.
blue grass: A species of grass (Poa compressa) with bluish green stems,valuable in thin gravelly soils; wire grass. Kentucky blue grass, aspecies of grass (Poa pratensis) which has running rootstocks andspreads rapidly. It is valuable as a pasture grass, as it enduresboth winter and drought better than other kinds, and is verynutritious.
blue hen state: The State of Delaware; -- a popular sobriquet. It is said,though the story lacks proof, to have taken its origin from theinsistence of a Delaware Revolutionary captain, named Caldwell, thatno cock could be truly game unless the mother was a blue hen, whenceBlue Hen's Chickens came to be a nickname for the people of Delaware.
blue jay: The common jay of the United States (Cyanocitta, or Cyanura,cristata). The predominant color is bright blue.
blue-eye: The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.
blue-eyed: Having blue eyes.
blue-eyed grass: a grasslike plant (Sisyrinchium anceps), with small flowers ofa delicate blue color.
blue-grass state: The Sate of Kentucky; -- a nickname alluding to the blue-grassregion, where fine horses are bred.
blue-john: A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used forornamental purposes.
blue-skylaw: A law enacted to provide for the regulation and supervision ofinvestment companies in order to protect the public against companiesthat do not intend to do a fair and honest business and that offerinvestments that do not promise a fair return; -- so called becausethe promises made by some investment companies are as boundless oralluring as the blue sky, or, perhaps, because designed to clear awaythe clouds and fogs from the simple investor's horizon. [Colloq.]
blue-veined: Having blue veins or blue streaks.
bluebeard: The hero of a mediæval French nursery legend, who, leavinghome, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in hiscastle. She entered it, and found the murdered bodies of his formerwives.-- Also used adjectively of a subject which it is forbidden toinvestigate.The Bluebeard chamber of his mind, into which no eye but his own mustlook. Carlyle.
blueberry: The berry of several species of Vaccinium, and ericaceousgenus, differing from the American huckleberries in containingnumerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets. The commonest speciesare V. Pennsylvanicum and V. vacillans. V. corymbosum is the tallblueberry.
bluebill: A duck of the genus Fuligula. Two American species (F. marilaand F. affinis) are common. See Scaup duck.
bluebird: A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the UnitedStates, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring.The male is blue, with the breast reddish. It is related to theEuropean robin. Pairy bluebird (Zoöl.), a brilliant Indian or EastIndian bird of the genus Irena, of several species.
bluebottle: A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields. Itreceives its name from its blue bottle-shaped flowers.
bluebreast: A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler.
bluecoat: One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.
bluefin: A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in LakeMichigan.
bluegown: One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars,in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributedcertain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.
bluely: With a blue color. Swift.
blueness: The quality of being blue; a blue color. Boyle.
bluenose: A nickname for a Nova Scotian.
bluepoll: A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales.
blueprint: See under Print.
bluestocking: The American avocet (Recurvirostra Americana).
bluestockingism: The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry.[Colloq.]
bluethroat: A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica),related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin andblue-throated warbler.
bluets: A name given to several different species of plants having blueflowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus orbluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.
bluewing: The blue-winged teal. See Teal.
bluey: ,a.Bluish. Southey.
bluff: To deter (an opponent) from taking the risk of betting on hishand of cards, as the bluffer does by betting heavily on his own handalthough it may be of less value. [U. S.]
bluff-bowed: Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.
bluff-headed: Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.
bluffer: One who bluffs.
bluffness: The quality or state of being bluff.
bluish: Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. "Bluish mists." Dryden.-- Blu"ish*ly, adv.-- Blu"ish*ness, n.
blunderer: One who is apt to blunder.
blunderhead: A stupid, blundering fellow.
blundering: Characterized by blunders.
blunderingly: In a blundering manner.
blunge: To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay.
blunger: A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi Tomlinson.
blunging: The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger.Tomlinson.
blunt-witted: Dull; stupid.Blunt-witted lord, ignoble in demeanor! Shak.
bluntish: Somewhat blunt.-- Blunt"ish*ness, n.
bluntly: In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; withoutdelicacy, or the usual forms of civility.Sometimes after bluntly giving his opinions, he would quietly layhimself asleep until the end of their deliberations. Jeffrey.
blurry: Full of blurs; blurred.
blurt: To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately;to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.Others . . . can not hold, but blurt out, those words which afterwardthey forced to eat. Hakewill.To blurt at, to speak contemptuously of. [Obs.] Shak.
blusher: One that blushes.
blushet: A modest girl. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
blushful: Full of blushes.While from his ardent look the turning Spring Averts her blushfulface. Thomson.
blushing: Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate colorlike some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate.The dappled pink and blushing rose. Prior.
blushingly: In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer orconfess blushingly.
blushless: Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.Vice now, secure, her blushless front shall raise. Dodsley.
blushy: Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy. [R.] "A blushycolor." Harvey.
bluster: To utter, or do, with noisy violence; to force by blustering;to bully.He bloweth and blustereth out . . . his abominable blasphemy. Sir T.More.As if therewith he meant to bluster all princes into a perfectobedience to his commands. Fuller.
blusterer: One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer.
blusteringly: In a blustering manner.
blusterous: Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering. Motley.
blustrous: Blusterous. Shak.
bo: An exclamation used to startle or frighten. [Spelt also boh andboo.]
bo tree: The peepul tree; esp., the very ancient tree standing atAnurajahpoora in Ceylon, grown from a slip of the tree under whichGautama is said to have received the heavenly light and so to havebecome Buddha.The sacred bo tree of the Buddhists (Ficus religiosa), which isplanted close to every temple, and attracts almost as much venerationas the status of the god himself. . . . It differs from the banyan(Ficus Indica) by sending down no roots from its branches. Tennent.
boa: A genus of large American serpents, including the boaconstrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and thechevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).
boa constrictor: A large and powerful serpent of tropical America, sometimestwenty or thirty feet long. See Illustration in Appendix.
boanerges: Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.
boar: The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog.
board: The stage in a theater; as, to go upon the boards, to enterupon the theatrical profession.
boardable: That can be boarded, as a ship.
boarder: One who boards a ship; one selected to board an enemy's ship.Totten.
boarding: The act of entering a ship, whether with a hostile or afriendly purpose.Both slain at one time, as they attempted the boarding of a frigate.Sir F. Drake.
boarish: Swinish; brutal; cruel.In his anointed flesh stick boarish fangs. Shak.
boast: To dress, as a stone, with a broad chisel. Weale.
boastance: Boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
boaster: One who boasts; a braggart.
boastful: Given to, or full of, boasting; inclined to boast; vaunting;vainglorious; self-praising.-- Boast"ful*ly, adv.-- Boast"ful*ness, n.
boasting: The act of glorying or vaunting; vainglorious speaking;ostentatious display.When boasting ends, then dignity begins. Young.
boastingly: Boastfully; with boasting. "He boastingly tells you." Burke.
boastive: Presumptuous. [R.]
boastless: Without boasting or ostentation.
boat: To go or row in a boat.I boated over, ran my craft aground. Tennyson.
boat bug: An aquatic hemipterous insect of the genus Notonecta; -- socalled from swimming on its back, which gives it the appearance of alittle boat. Called also boat fly, boat insect, boatman, and waterboatman.
boat-shaped: See Cymbiform.
boat-tail: A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in theSouthern United States.
boatage: Conveyance by boat; also, a charge for such conveyance.
boatful: The quantity or amount that fills a boat.
boathouse: A house for sheltering boats.Half the latticed boathouse hides. Wordsworth.
boation: A crying out; a roaring; a bellowing; reverberation. [Obs.]The guns were heard . . . about a hundred Italian miles, in longboations. Derham.
boatman: A boat bug. See Boat bug.
boatmanship: The art of managing a boat.
boatsman: A boatman. [Archaic]
boatswain: An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors,anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons thecrew, and performs other duties.
boatwoman: A woman who manages a boat.
bob: A working beam.
bob wig: A short wig with bobs or short curls; -- called also bobtailwig. Spectator.
bob-cherry: A play among children, in which a cherry, hung so as to bobagainst the mouth, is to be caught with the teeth.
bobac: The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac).
bobance: A boasting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bobber: One who, or that which, bobs.
bobbery: A squabble; a tumult; a noisy disturbance; as, to raise abobbery. [Low] Halliwell.
bobbin: A fine cord or narrow braid.
bobbinet: A kind of cotton lace which is wrought by machines, and not byhand. [Sometimes written bobbin net.]The English machine-made net isnow confined to point net, warp net, and bobbin net, so called fromthe peculiar construction of the machines by which they are produced.Tomlinsom.
bobbinwork: Work woven with bobbins.
bobbish: Hearty; in good spirits. [Low, Eng.] Dickens.
bobby: A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, whoremodeled the police force. See Peeler. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.
bobfly: The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly.
bobolink: An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus). The male isblack and white; the female is brown; -- called also, ricebird,reedbird, and Boblincoln.The happiest bird of our spring is the bobolink. W. Irving.
bobstay: A rope or chain to confine the bowsprit of a ship downward tothe stem or cutwater; -- usually in the pl.
bobtail: An animal (as a horse or dog) with a short tail. Rag, tag, andbobtail, the rabble.
bobtailed: Having the tail cut short, or naturally short; curtailed; as, abobtailed horse or dog; a bobtailed coat.
bobwhite: The common qua(Colinus, or Ortyx, Virginianus); -- so calledfrom its note.
bocal: A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck.
bocardo: A form of syllogism of which the first and third propositionsare particular negatives, and the middle term a universalaffirmative.Baroko and Bocardo have been stumbling blocks to the logicians.Bowen.
bocasine: A sort of fine buckram.
bocca: The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory throughwhich the fused glass is taken out. Craig.
boce: A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body andbright colors; -- called also box, and bogue.
bock beer: A strong beer, originally made in Bavaria. [Also written buckbeer.]
bockelet: A kind of long-winged hawk; -- called also bockerel, andbockeret. [Obs.]
bockey: A bowl or vessel made from a gourd. [Local, New York] Bartlett.
bocking: A coarse woolen fabric, used for floor cloths, to covercarpets, etc.; -- so called from the town of Bocking, in England,where it was first made.
bockland: See Bookland.
bod veal: Veal too immature to be suitable for food.
boddice: See Bodick.
bode: To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; toportend to presage; to foreshow.A raven that bodes nothing but mischief. Goldsmith.Good onset bodes good end. Spenser.
bodeful: Portentous; ominous. Carlyle.
bodement: An omen; a prognostic. [Obs.]This foolish, dreaming, superstitious girl Makes all these bodements.Shak.
bodge: A botch; a patch. [Dial.] Whitlock.
bodian: A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the EastIndies.
bodiced: Wearing a bodice. Thackeray.
bodied: Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied.A doe . . . not altogether so fat, but very good flesh and goodbodied. Hakluyt.
bodiliness: Corporeality. Minsheu.
boding: Foreshowing; presaging; ominous.-- Bod"ing*ly, adv.
bodkin: An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point,for making holes by piercing; a
bodle: A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny.Sir W. Scott.
bodleian: Of or pertaining to Sir Thomas Bodley, or to the celebratedlibrary at Oxford, founded by him in the sixteenth century.
bodock: The Osage orange. [Southwestern U.S.]
bodrage: A raid. [Obs.]
body: The shank of a type, or the depth of the shank (by which thesize is indicated); as, a nonpareil face on an agate body.
boeotian: Of or pertaining to Boeotia; hence, stupid; dull; obtuse.-- n.
boer: A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent.
boes: Behoves or behooves. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bog: To sink, as into a bog; to submerge in a bog; to cause to sinkand stick, as in mud and mire.At another time, he was bogged up to the middle in the slough ofLochend. Sir W. Scott.
bogberry: The small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), which grows in boggyplaces.
bogey: A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy.
boggard: A bogey. [Local, Eng.]
boggle: To embarrass with difficulties; to make a bungle or botch of.[Local, U. S.]
boggler: One who boggles.
bogglish: Doubtful; skittish. [Obs.]
boggy: Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of abog; swampy; as, boggy land.
bogie: A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around avertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railwaytrack.
bogie engine: A switching engine the running gear and driving gear of whichare on a bogie, or truck.
bogle: A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear.[Written also boggle.]
bogsucker: The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among thebogs.
bogtrotter: One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to thelowest class of Irish. Halliwell.
bogtrotting: Living among bogs.
bogue: To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- saidonly of inferior craft.
bogus: Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally appliedto counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit.[Colloq. U. S.]
bogwood: The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs. It isof a shining black or ebony color, and is largely used for makingornaments.
bogy: A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear. "Death's heads and bogies."J. H. Newman. [Written also bogey.]There are plenty of such foolish attempts at playing bogy in thehistory of savages. C. Kingsley.
bohea: Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea.
bohemianism: The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian. [Modern]
bohun upas: See Upas.
boiar: See Boyar.
boil: Act or state of boiling. [Colloq.]
boilary: See Boilery.
boiled: Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of aboiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes.
boiler: A strong metallic vessel, usually of wrought iron platesriveted together, or a composite structure variously formed, in whichsteam is generated for driving engines, or for heating, cooking, orother purposes.
boilery: A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine insalt making.
boiling: Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; intumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swellingwith heat, ardor, or passion. Boiling point, the temperature at whicha fluid is converted into vapor, with the phenomena of ebullition.This is different for different liquids, and for the same liquidunder different pressures. For water, at the level of the sea,barometer 30 in., it is 212 º Fahrenheit; for alcohol, 172.96º; forether, 94.8º; for mercury, about 675º. The boiling point of water islowered one degree Fahrenheit for about 550 feet of ascent above thelevel of the sea.-- Boiling spring, a spring which gives out very hot water, or waterand steam, often ejecting it with much force; a geyser.-- To be at the boiling point, to be very angry.-- To keep the pot boiling, to keep going on actively, as in certaingames. [Colloq.]
boilingly: With boiling or ebullition.And lakes of bitumen rise boiling higher. Byron.
bois durci: A hard, highly polishable composition, made of fine sawdustfrom hard wood (as rosewood) mixed with blood, and pressed.
boist: A box. [Obs.]
boisterously: In a boisterous manner.
boisterousness: The state or quality of being boisterous; turbulence; disorder;tumultuousness.
boistous: Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy.[Obs.] Chaucer.-- Bois"tous*ly, adv.-- Bois"tous*ness, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bojanus organ: A glandular organ of bivalve mollusca, serving in part as akidney.
bokadam: See Cerberus.
boke: To poke; to thrust. [Obs. or Dial.]
bolar: Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature andqualities of bole; clayey.
bolas: A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more ballsof stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leathercord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others, forhurling at and entangling an animal.
bold: To make bold or daring. [Obs.] Shak.
bold eagle: an Australian eagle (Aquila audax), which destroys lambs andeven the kangaroo.-- To make bold, to take liberties or the liberty; to venture.
bold-faced: Having a conspicuous or heavy face.
bolden: To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.Ready speakers, being boldened with their present abilities to saymore, . . . use less help of diligence and study. Ascham.
boldly: In a bold manner.
boldness: The state or quality of being bold.
bole: The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.Enormous elm-tree boles did stoop and lean. Tennyson.
bolection: A projecting molding round a panel. Same as Bilection. Gwilt.
bolero: A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it.
bolete: any fungus of the family Boletaceae.[WordNet 1.5]
boletic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the Boletus. Boletic acid, anacid obtained from the Boletus fomentarius, variety pseudo-igniarius.Same as Fumaric acid.
boletus: A genus of fungi having the under side of the pileus or capcomposed of a multitude of fine separate tubes. A few are edible, andothers very poisonous.
bolide: A kind of meteor; a bolis.
bolis: A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train oflight or sparks; esp. one which explodes.
bolivian: Of or pertaining to Bolivia.-- n.
boll: To form a boll or seed vessel; to go to seed.The barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled. Ex. ix. 31.
bollandists: The Jesuit editors of the "Acta Sanctorum", or Lives of theSaints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work.
bollard: An upright wooden or iron post in a boat or on a dock, used inveering or fastening ropes. Bollard timber (Naut.), a timber, alsocalled a knighthead, rising just within the stem in a ship, on eitherside of the bowsprit, to secure its end.
bollen: See Boln, a.
bolling: A tree from which the branches have been cut; a pollard.
bollworm: The larva of a moth (Heliothis armigera) which devours thebolls or unripe pods of the cotton plant, often doing great damage tothe crops.
boln: To swell; to puff. Holland.
bolo: A kind of large knife resembling a machete. [Phil. Islands]
bolognese: Of or pertaining to Bologna.-- n.
bolognian: Bolognese. Bolognian stone. See Bologna stone, under Bologna.
bolometer: An instrument for measuring minute quantities of radiant heat,especially in different parts of the spectrum; -- called also actinicbalance, thermic balance. S. P. Langley.
bolsa: An exchange for the transaction of business. [Sp. Amer. & Phil.Islands]
bolster: A cushioned or a piece part of a saddle.
bolsterer: A supporter.
bolt: To refuse to support, as a nomination made by a party to whichone has belonged or by a caucus in which one has taken part.
boltel: See Boultel.
bolter: One who bolts; esp.
bolthead: A long, straightnecked, glass vessel for chemicaldistillations; -- called also a matrass or receiver.
bolting: A darting away; a starting off or aside.
boltonite: A granular mineral of a grayish or yellowish color, found inBolton, Massachusetts. It is a silicate of magnesium, belonging tothe chrysolite family.
boltrope: A rope stitched to the edges of a sail to strengthen the sail.
boltsprit: See Bowsprit.
bolty: An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis). [Written alsobulti.]
bolus: A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill.
bom: A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes.
bomb: A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars.See Shell.
bombace: Cotton; padding. [Obs.]
bombard: A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones andother ponderous missiles. It was the earliest kind of cannon.They planted in divers places twelve great bombards, wherewith theythrew huge stones into the air, which, falling down into the city,might break down the houses. Knolles.
bombardman: One who carried liquor or beer in a can or bombard. [Obs.]They . . . made room for a bombardman that brought bouge for acountry lady. B. Jonson.
bombardment: An attack upon a fortress or fortified town, with shells, hotshot, rockets, etc.; the act of throwing bombs and shot into a townor fortified place.
bombasine: Same as Bombazine.
bombast: High-sounding; inflated; big without meaning; magniloquent;bombastic.[He] evades them with a bombast circumstance,Horribly stuffed with epithets of war. Shak.Nor a tall metaphor in bombast way. Cowley.
bombastry: Swelling words without much meaning; bombastic language;fustian.Bombastry and buffoonery, by nature lofty and light, soar highest ofall. Swift.
bombax: A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a treeof the genus Bombax.
bombazine: A twilled fabric for dresses, of which the warp is silk, andthe weft worsted. Black bombazine has been much used for mourninggarments. [Sometimes spelt bombasin, and bombasine.] Tomlinson.
bombic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid.
bombilate: To hum; to buzz. [R.]
bombilation: A humming sound; a booming.To . . . silence the bombilation of guns. Sir T. Browne.
bombinate: To hum; to boom.
bombination: A humming or buzzing.
bombolo: A thin spheroidal glass retort or flask, used in thesublimation of camphor. [Written also bumbelo, and bumbolo.]
bombproof: Secure against the explosive force of bombs.-- n.
bombshell: A bomb. See Bomb, n.
bombycid: Like or pertaining to the genus Bombyx, or the familyBombycidæ.
bombylious: Buzzing, like a bumblebee; as, the bombylious noise of thehorse fly. [Obs.] Derham.
bombyx: A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. SeeSilkworm.
bon: Good; valid as security for something.
bon silene: A very fragrant tea rose with petals of various shades of pink.
bon ton: The height of the fashion; fashionable society.
bon vivant: A good fellow; a jovial companion; a free liver.
bon-accord: Good will; good fellowship; agreement. [Scot.]
bona fide: In or with good faith; without fraud or deceit; real or really;actual or actually; genuine or genuinely; as, you must proceed bonafide; a bona fide purchaser or transaction.
bona fides: Good faith; honesty; freedom from fraud or deception.
bona peritura: Perishable goods. Bouvier.
bona roba: A showy wanton; a courtesan. Shak
bonair: Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding. [Obs.]
bonanza: In mining, a rich mine or vein of silver or gold; hence,anything which is a mine of wealth or yields a large income. [Colloq.U. S.]
bonapartean: Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family.
bonapartism: The policy of Bonaparte or of the Bonapartes.
bonapartist: One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of theBonapartes.
bonbon: Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty.
bonbonniere: A small fancy box or dish for bonbons.
bonce: A boy's game played with large marbles.
bonchretien: A name given to several kinds of pears. See Bartlett.
boncilate: A substance composed of ground bone, mineral matters, etc.,hardened by pressure, and used for making billiard balls, boxes, etc.
bond: The state of being bound; imprisonment; captivity, restraint."This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds." Acts xxvi.
bond servant: A slave; one who is bound to service without wages.If thy brother . . . be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee; thou shaltnot compel him to serve as a bond servant
bond service: The condition of a bond servant; sevice without wages; slavery.Their children . . . upon those did Solomon levy a tribute of bondservice. 1 Kings ix. 21.
bondage: Villenage; tenure of land on condition of doing the meanestservices for the owner.
bondager: A field worker, esp. a woman who works in the field. [Scot.]
bondar: A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to thegenet; -- called also musk cat.
bonded: Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment ofduties, or for conformity to coertain regulations. Bonded goods,goods placed in a bonded warehouse; goods, for the duties on whichbonds are given at the customhouse.-- Bonded warehouse, a warehouse in which goods on which the dutiesare unpaid are stored under bond and in the joint custody of theimporter, or his agent, and the customs officers.
bonder: A bonding stone or brick; a bondstone.
bondholder: A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporationfor the payment of money at a certain time.
bondmaid: A female slave, or one bound to service without wages, asdistinguished from a hired servant.
bondman: A villain, or tenant in villenage.
bondslave: A person in a state of slavery; one whose person and libertyare subjected to the authority of a master.
bondsman: A surety; one who is bound, or who gives security, for another.
bondstone: A stone running through a wall from one face to another, tobind it together; a binding stone.
bondswoman: See Bondwoman.
bonduc: See Nicker tree.
bondwoman: A woman who is a slave, or in bondage.He who was of the bondwoman. Gal. iv. 23.
bone: The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrateanimals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcicphosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone.
boneache: Pain in the bones. Shak.
boneblack: See Bone black, under Bone, n.
bonedog: The spiny dogfish.
bonefish: See Ladyfish.
boneless: Without bones. "Boneless gums." Shak.
boneset: A medicinal plant, the thoroughwort (Eupatorium perfoliatum).Its properties are diaphoretic and tonic.
bonesetter: One who sets broken or dislocated bones; -- commonly applied toone, not a regular surgeon, who makes an occupation of setting bones.-- Bone"set*ting, n.
boneshaw: Sciatica. [Obs.]
bonetta: See Bonito. Sir T. Herbert.
bonfire: A large fire built in the open air, as an expression of publicjoy and exultation, or for amusement.Full soon by bonfire and by bell, We learnt our liege was passingwell. Gay.
bongo: Either of two large antelopes (Boöcercus eurycercus of WestAfrica, and B. isaaci of East Africa) of a reddish or chestnut-browncolor with narrow white stripes on the body. Their flesh isespecially esteemed as food.
bongrace: A projecting bonnet or shade to protect the complexion; also, awide-brimmed hat. [Obs.]
bonibell: See Bonnibel. [Obs.] Spenser.
boniface: An innkeeper.
boniform: Sensitive or responsive to moral excellence. Dr. H. More.
bonify: To convert into, or make, good.To bonify evils, or tincture them with good. Cudworth.
boniness: The condition or quality of being bony.
bonitary: Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitarydominion of land.
bonmot: A witty repartee; a jest.
bonnaz: A kind of embroidery made with a complicated sewing machine,said to have been originally invented by a Frenchman of the name ofBonnaz. The work is done either in freehand or by following aperforated design.
bonne: (F., prop. good woman.) A female servant charged with the careof a young child.
bonne bouche: A delicious morsel or mouthful; a tidbit.
bonnet: An additional piece of canvas laced to the foot of a jib orforesail in moderate winds. Hakluyt.
bonnet rouge: The red cap adopted by the extremists in the French Revolution,which became a sign of patriotism at that epoch; hence, arevolutionist; a Red Republican.
bonneted: Protected by a bonnet. See Bonnet, 4 (a).
bonnetless: Without a bonnet.
bonnibel: A handsome girl. [Obs.]
bonnie: See Bonny, a.
bonnilass: A "bonny lass"; a beautiful girl. [Obs.] Spenser.
bonnily: Gayly; handsomely.
bonniness: The quality of being bonny; gayety [R.]
bonny: A round and compact bed of ore, or a distinct bed, notcommunicating with a vein.
bonnyclabber: Coagulated sour milk; loppered milk; curdled milk; -- sometimescalled simply clabber. B. Jonson.
bonspiel: A cur [Scot.]
bontebok: The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga). Itsface and rump are white. Called also nunni.
bonus: A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilegegranted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter.Bouvier.
bonze: A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun.
booby: Having the characteristics of a booby; stupid.
boobyish: Stupid; dull.
boodh: Same as Buddha. Malcom.
boodhism: Same as Buddhism.
boodhist: Same as Buddhist.
boohoe: To bawl; to cry loudly. [Low] Bartlett.
boohoo: The sailfish; -- called also woohoo.
book-learned: Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books. [Often ina disparaging sense.]Whate'er these book-learned blockheads say, Solon's the veriest foolin all the play. Dryden.
bookbinder: One whose occupation is to bind books.
bookbindery: A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for bindingbooks.
bookbinding: The art, process, or business of binding books.
bookcase: A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazeddoors.
bookcraft: Authorship; literary skill.
booker: One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; abookkeeper.
bookful: As much as will fill a book; a book full. Shak.-- a.
booking clerk: A clerk who registers passengers, baggage, etc., forconveyance, as by railway or steamship, or who sells passage ticketsat a booking office.
bookkeeper: One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping thebooks and accounts in an office.
bookkeeping: The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in aregular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to eachother, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art ofkeeping accounts. The books commonly used are a daybook, cashbook,journal, and ledger. See Daybook, Cashbook, Journal, and Ledger.Bookkeeping by single entry, the method of keeping books by carryingthe record of each transaction to the debit or credit of a singleaccount.-- Bookkeeping by double entry, a mode of bookkeeping in which twoentries of every transaction are carried to the ledger, one to theDr., or left hand, side of one account, and the other to the Cr., orright hand, side of a corresponding account, in order thaItalianmethod.
bookless: Without books; unlearned. Shenstone.
booklet: A little book. T. Arnold.
bookmaker: A betting man who "makes a book." See To make a book, underBook, n.
bookman: A studious man; a scholar. Shak.
bookmark: Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particularpage or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; abookplate.
bookmate: A schoolfellow; an associate in study.
bookmonger: A dealer in books.
bookplate: A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or itsposition in a library.
bookseller: One who sells books.
bookselling: The employment of selling books.
bookshelf: A shelf to hold books.
bookshop: A bookseller's shop. [Eng.]
bookstall: A stall or stand where books are sold.
bookstore: A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England abookseller's shop.
bookworm: Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books.Many species are known.
booky: Bookish.
booly: A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wanderingfrom place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk,like the Tartars; also, a place in the mountain pastures inclosed forthe shelter of cattle or their keepers. [Obs.] [Written also boley,bolye, bouillie.] Spenser.
boom: A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending thebottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sailboom, etc.
boomdas: A small African hyracoid mammal (Dendrohyrax arboreus)resembling the daman.
boomer: A North American rodent, so named because it is said to make abooming noise. See Sewellel.
boomerang: A very singular missile weapon used by the natives of Australiaand in some parts of India. It is usually a curved stick of hardwood, from twenty to thirty inches in length, from two to threeinches wide, and half or three quarters of an inch thick. When thrownfrom the hand with a quick rotary motion, it describes veryremarkable curves, according to the shape of the instrument and themanner of throwing it, often moving nearly horizontally a longdistance, then curving upward to a considerable height, and finallytaking a retrograde direction, so as to fall near the place fromwhich it was thrown, or even far in the rear of it.
booming: The act of producing a hollow or roaring sound; a violentrushing with heavy roar; as, the booming of the sea; a deep, hollowsound; as, the booming of bitterns. Howitt.
boomkin: Same as Bumkin.
boomorah: A small West African chevrotain (Hyæmoschus aquaticus),resembling the musk deer.
boomslange: A large South African tree snake (Bucephalus Capensis).Although considered venomous by natives, it has no poison fangs.
boon: The woody portion flax, which is separated from the fiber asrefuse matter by retting, braking, and scutching.
boorish: Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly.-- Boor"ish*ly, adv.-- Boor"ish*ness, n.Which is in truth a gross and boorish opinion. Milton.
boort: See Bort.
boose: A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
booser: A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer.
boost: To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb);to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in makingadvancement. [Colloq. U. S.]
booster: An instrument for regulating the electro-motive force in analternating-current circuit; -- so called because used to "boost", orraise, the pressure in the circuit.
boot: The metal casing and flange fitted about a pipe where it passesthrough a roof. Boot catcher, the person at an inn whose business itwas to pull off boots and clean them. [Obs.] Swift.-- Boot closer, one who, or that which, sews the uppers of boots.-- Boot crimp, a frame or device used by bootmakers for drawing andshaping the body of a boot.-- Boot hook, a hook with a handle, used for pulling on boots.-- Boots and saddles (Cavalry Tactics), the trumpet call which isthe first signal for mounted drill.-- Sly boots. See Slyboots, in the Vocabulary.
bootblack: One who blacks boots.
booted: Having an undivided, horny, bootlike covering; -- said of thetarsus of some birds.
bootee: A half boot or short boot.
boothale: To forage for booty; to plunder. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
boothy: See Bothy.
booting: Advantage; gain; gain by plunder; booty. [Obs.] Sir. J.Harrington.
bootjack: A device for pulling off boots.
bootless: Unavailing; unprofitable; useless; without advantage orsuccess. Chaucer.I'll follow him no more with bootless prayers. Shak.-- Boot"less*ly, adv.-- Boot"less*ness, n.
bootlick: A toady. [Low, U. S.] Bartlett.
bootmaker: One who makes boots.-- Boot"mak`ing, n.
boots: A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks theboots and shoes.
boottopping: The act or process of daubing a vessel's bottom near thesurface of the water with a mixture of tallow, sulphur, and resin, asa temporary protection against worms, after the slime, shells, etc.,have been scraped off.
boottree: An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot,consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which,when put into the boot, a wedge is driven.The pretty boots trimly stretched on boottrees. Thackeray.
booty: That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery,especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage. Milton.To play booty, to play dishonestly, with an intent to lose; to allowone's adversary to win at cards at first, in order to induce him tocontinue playing and victimize him afterwards. [Obs.] L'Estrange.
booze: To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; totipple. [Written also bouse, and boose.] Landor.This is better than boozing in public houses. H. R. Haweis.
boozer: One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; abouser.
boozy: A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.[Colloq.] C. Kingsley.
bopeep: The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so asto startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out anddrawing suddenly back, as if frightened.I for sorrow sung, That such a king should play bopeep, And go thefools among. Shak.
borable: Capable of being bored. [R.]
borachte: A large leather bottle for liquors, etc., made of the skin of agoat or other animal. Hence
boracic: Pertaining to, or produced from, borax; containing boron;boric; as, boracic acid.
boracite: A mineral of a white or gray color occurring massive and inisometric crystals; in composition it is a magnesium borate withmagnesium chloride.
boracous: Relating to, or obtained from, borax; containing borax.
borage: A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis),which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic.
boragewort: Plant of the Borage family.
boraginaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants(Boraginaceæ) which includes the borage, heliotrope, beggar's lice,and many pestiferous plants.
boragineous: Relating to the Borage tribe; boraginaceous.
boramez: See Barometz.
borate: A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base orpositive radical.
borax: A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste,used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors onporcelain, and as a soap. It occurs native in certain mineralsprings, and is made from the boric acid of hot springs in Tuscany.It was originally obtained from a lake in Thibet, and was sent toEurope under the name of tincal. Borax is a pyroborate or tetraborateof sodium, Na2B4O7.10H2O. Borax bead. (Chem.) See Bead, n., 3.
borborygm: A rumbling or gurgling noise produced by wind in the bowels.Dunglison.
bord: The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures.
bord service: Service due from a bordar; bordage.
bordage: The base or servile tenure by which a bordar held his cottage.
bordar: A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; acottier.The cottar, the bordar, and the laborer were bound to aid in the workof the home farm. J. R. Green.
bordeaux: Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France.-- n.
bordeaux mixture: A fungicidal mixture composed of blue vitriol, lime, and water.The formula in common use is
bordelais: Of or pertaining to Bordeaux, in France, or to the districtaround Bordeaux.
bordeller: A keeper or a frequenter of a brothel. [Obs.] Gower.
bordereau: A note or memorandum, esp. one containing an enumeration ofdocuments.
borderer: One who dwells on a border, or at the extreme part or confinesof a country, region, or tract of land; one who dwells near to aplace or region.Borderers of the Caspian. Dyer.
bordland: Either land held by a bordar, or the land which a lord kept forthe maintenance of his board, or table. Spelman.
bordlode: The service formerly required of a tenant, to carry timber fromthe woods to the lord's house. Bailey. Mozley & W.
bordman: A bordar; a tenant in bordage.
bordure: A border one fifth the width of the shield, surrounding thefield. It is usually plain, but may be charged.
bore: To shoot out the nose or toss it in the air; Crabb.
boreal: Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, aboreal bird; a boreal blast.So from their own clear north in radiant streams, Bright over Europebursts the boreal morn. Thomson.
boreas: The north wind; -- usually a personification.
borecole: A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for itsleaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage,but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale.
boree: Same as BourrÉ\'82. [Obs.] Swift.
borel: See Borrel.
borele: The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodusbicornis).
boric: Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron. Boric acid, a whitecrystalline substance B(OH)3, easily obtained from its salts, andoccurring in solution in the hot lagoons of Tuscany.
boride: A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basicelement or radical; -- formerly called boruret.
boring: The chips or fragments made by boring. Boring bar, a revolvingor stationary bar, carrying one or more cutting tools for dressinground holes.-- Boring tool (Metal Working), a cutting tool placed in a cutterhead to dress round holes. Knight.
borne: Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t.
borneol: A rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinarycamphor, from which it can be produced by reduction. It is said tooccur in the camphor tree of Borneo and Sumatra (Dryobalanopscamphora), but the natural borneol is rarely found in European orAmerican commerce, being in great request by the Chinese. Called alsoBorneo camphor, Malay camphor, and camphol.
bornite: A valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur;-- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to thecolors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface.
borofluoride: A double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positiveelement, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerlyfluoborate.
boroglyceride: A compound of boric acid and glycerin, used as an antiseptic.
boron: A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax. It isreduced with difficulty to the free state, when it can be obtained inseveral different forms; viz., as a substance of a deep olive color,in a semimetallic form, and in colorless quadratic crystals similarto the diamond in hardness and other properties. It occurs in naturealso in boracite, datolite, tourmaline, and some other minerals.Atomic weight 10.9. Symbol B.
borosilicate: A double salt of boric and silicic acids, as in the naturalminerals tourmaline, datolite, etc.
borough-english: A custom, as in some ancient boroughs, by which lands andtenements descend to the youngest son, instead of the eldest; or, ifthe owner have no issue, to the youngest brother. Blackstone.
boroughhead: See Headborough. [Obs.]
boroughholder: A headborough; a borsholder.
boroughmaster: The mayor, governor, or bailiff of a borough.
boroughmonger: One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.
borracho: See Borachio. [Obs.]
borrel: Ignorant, unlearned; belonging to the laity. [Obs.] Chaucer.
borrow: To take (one or more) from the next higher denomination inorder to add it to the next lower; -- a term of subtraction when thefigure of the subtrahend is larger than the corresponding one of theminuend.
borrower: One who borrows.Neither a borrower nor a lender be. Shak.
borsholder: The head or chief of a tithing, or borough (see 2d Borough);the headborough; a parish constable. Spelman.
bort: Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments madein cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used inlapidary work.
boruret: A boride. [Obs.]
borwe: Pledge; borrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bos: A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domesticcattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large foldof skin hanging from the neck.
bosa: A drink, used in the East. See Boza.
boscage: Food or sustenance for cattle, obtained from bushes and trees;also, a tax on wood.
bosh: Figure; outline; show. [Obs.]
boshbok: A kind of antelope. See Bush buck.
boshvark: The bush hog. See under Bush, a thicket.
bosjesman: ; pl. Bosjesmans. [D. boschjesman.]
bosk: A thicket; a small wood. "Through bosk and dell." Sir W. Scott.
boskage: Same as Boscage.Thridding the somber boskage of the wood. Tennyson.
boskiness: Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky.
bosomed: Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden.
bosomy: Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows.
boson: See Boatswain. [Obs.] Dryden.
bosporian: Of or pertaining to the Thracian or the Cimmerian Bosporus.The Alans forced the Bosporian kings to pay them tribute andexterminated the Taurians. Tooke.
bosporus: A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas;as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait ofConstantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; theCimmerian Bosporus, between the Black Sea and Sea of Azof. [Writtenalso Bosphorus.]
bosquet: See Bosket.
boss: A projecting ornament placed at the intersection of the ribs ofceilings, whether vaulted or flat, and in other situations.
bossage: A stone in a building, left rough and projecting, to beafterward carved into shape. Gwilt.
bossed: Embossed; also, bossy.
bosset: A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer.
bossism: The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses. [Slang,U. S.]
bossy: Ornamented with bosses; studded.
boston: A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs offifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston,Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the Frencharmy in America during the Revolutionary war.
bostryx: A form of cymose inflorescence with all the flowers on one sideof the rachis, usually causing it to curl; -- called also a uniparoushelicoid cyme.
boswellian: Relating to, or characteristic of, Boswell, the biographer ofDr. Johnson.
boswellism: The style of Boswell.
bot: See Bots.
botanist: One skilled in botany; one versed in the knowledge of plants.
botanize: To seek after plants for botanical investigation; to studyplants.
botanizer: One who botanizes.
botanologer: A botanist. [Obs.]
botanology: The science of botany. [Obs.] Bailey.
botanomancy: An ancient species of divination by means of plants, esp. sageand fig leaves.
botany bay: A harbor on the east coast of Australia, and an English convictsettlement there; -- so called from the number of new plants found onits shore at its discovery by Cook in 1770.
botargo: A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of themullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentiveto drink.
botchedly: In a clumsy manner.
botcher: A young salmon; a grilse.
botcherly: Bungling; awkward. [R.]
botchery: A botching, or that which is done by botching; clumsy orcareless workmanship.
botchy: Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done. "This botchybusiness." Bp. Watson.
boteless: Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless.
botfly: A dipterous insect of the family (Estridæ, of many differentspecies, some of which are particularly troublesome to domesticanimals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit theireggs. A common species is one of the botflies of the horse(Gastrophilus equi), the larvæ of which (bots) are taken into thestomach of the animal, where they live several months and passthrough their larval states. In tropical America one speciessometimes lives under the human skin, and another in the stomach. SeeGadfly.
both: The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception ofeither.
both-hands: A factotum. [R.]He is his master's both-hands, I assure you. B. Jonson.
bother: To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.
botheration: The act of bothering, or state of being bothered; cause oftrouble; perplexity; annoyance; vexation. [Colloq.]
botherer: One who bothers.
bothersome: Vexatious; causing bother; causing trouble or perplexity;troublesome.
bothie: Same as Bothy. [Scot.]
bothrenchyma: Dotted or pitted ducts or vessels forming the pores seen inmany kinds of wood.
botocudos: A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; -- also called Aymborés.
botryogen: A hydrous sulphate of iron of a deep red color. It often occursin botryoidal form.
botryolite: A variety of datolite, usually having a botryoidal structure.
bots: The larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larv·hich infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and aresupposed to be the cause of various ailments. [Written also botts.]
bottle: To put into bottles; to inclose in, or as in, a bottle orbottles; to keep or restrain as in a bottle; as, to bottle wine orporter; to bottle up one's wrath.
bottle green: A dark shade of green, like that of bottle glass.-- Bot"tle-green`, a.
bottle-neck frame: An inswept frame. [Colloq.]
bottle-nosed: Having the nose bottleshaped, or large at the end. Dickens.
bottlehead: A cetacean allied to the grampus; -- called also bottle-nosedwhale.
bottler: One who bottles wine, beer, soda water, etc.
bottlescrew: A corkscrew. Swift.
bottling: The act or the process of putting anything into bottles (asbeer, mineral water, etc.) and corking the bottles.
bottom: The part of a ship which is ordinarily under water; hence, thevessel itself; a ship.My ventures are not in one bottom trusted. Shak.Not to sell the teas, but to return them to London in the samebottoms in which they were shipped. Bancroft.Full bottom, a hull of such shape as permits carrying a large amountof merchandise.
bottom fermentation: A slow alcoholic fermentation during which the yeast cellscollect at the bottom of the fermenting liquid. It takes place at atemperature of 4º - 10º C. (39º - 50ºF.). It is used in making lagerbeer and wines of low alcohol content but fine bouquet.
bottomed: Having at the bottom, or as a bottom; resting upon a bottom;grounded; -- mostly, in composition; as, sharp-bottomed; well-bottomed.
bottomless: Without a bottom; hence, fathomless; baseless; as, a bottomlessabyss. "Bottomless speculations." Burke.
bottomry: A contract in the nature of a mortgage, by which the owner of aship, or the master as his agent, hypothecates and binds the ship(and sometimes the accruing freight) as security for the repayment ofmoney advanced or lent for the use of the ship, if she terminates hervoyage successfully. If the ship is lost by perils of the sea, thelender loses the money; but if the ship arrives safe, he is toreceive the money lent, with the interest or premium stipulated,although it may, and usually does, exceed the legal rate of interest.See Hypothecation.
botts: See Bots.
botuliform: Having the shape of a sausage. Henslow.
bouche: Same as Bush, a lining.
bouchees: Small patties.
boucherize: To impregnate with a preservative solution of copper sulphate,as timber, railroad ties, etc.
boud: A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc. [Obs.]Tusser., n. Etym
boudoir: A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, towhich a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends;a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room. Cowper.
bouffe: Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe.
bougainvillaea: A genus of plants of the order Nyctoginaceæ, from tropicalSouth America, having the flowers surrounded by large bracts.
bouge: To stave in; to bilge. [Obs.] Holland.
bouget: A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; --also called water bouget.
bought: imp. & p. p. of Buy.
boughten: Purchased; not obtained or produced at home. Coleridge.
boughty: Bending. [Obs.] Sherwood.
bougie: A long, flexible instrument, that is
bougie decimale: A photometric standard used in France, having the value of onetwentieth of the Violle platinum standard, or slightly less than aBritish standard candle. Called also decimal candle.
bouilli: Boiled or stewed meat; beef boiled with vegetables in waterfrom which its gravy is to be made; beef from which bouillon or souphas been made.
bouillon: An excrescence on a horse's frush or frog.
boul: A curved handle. Sir W. Scott.
boulangerite: A mineral of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, usuallyin plumose masses, also compact. It is sulphide of antimony and lead.
boulangism: The spirit or principles of a French political movementidentified with Gen. Georges Boulanger (d. 1891), whose militarismand advocacy of revenge on Germany attracted to him a miscellaneousparty of monarchists and Republican malcontents. -- Bou*lan"gist (#),n.
boulder: Same as Bowlder.
bouldery: Characterized by bowlders.
boulevardier: A frequenter of a city boulevard, esp. in Paris.  F. Harrison.
bouleversement: Complete overthrow; disorder; a turning upside down.
boult: Corrupted form Bolt.
boulter: A long, stout fishing line to which many hooks are attached.
boun: Ready; prepared; destined; tending. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bounce: A dogfish of Europe (Scyllium catulus).
bouncingly: With a bounce.
bound: The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of anyobject or space; that which limits or restrains, or within whichsomething is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary.He hath compassed the waters with bounds. Job xxvi. 10.On earth's remotest bounds. Campbell.And mete the bounds of hate and love. Tennyson.To keep within bounds, not to exceed or pass beyond assigned limits;to act with propriety or discretion.
boundary: That which indicates or fixes a limit or extent, or marks abound, as of a territory; a bounding or separating line; a real orimaginary limit.But still his native country lies Beyond the boundaries of the skies.N. Cotton.That bright and tranquil stream, the boundary of Louth and Meath.Macaulay.Sensation and reflection are the boundaries of our thoughts. Locke.
bounder: One who, or that which, limits; a boundary. Sir T. Herbert.
bounding: Moving with a bound or bounds.The bounding pulse, the languid limb. Montgomery.
boundless: Without bounds or confines; illimitable; vast; unlimited. "Theboundless sky." Bryant. "The boundless ocean." Dryden. "Boundlessrapacity." "Boundless prospect of gain." Macaulay.
bounteous: Liberal in charity; disposed to give freely; generouslyliberal; munificent; beneficent; free in bestowing gifts; as,bounteous production.But O, thou bounteous Giver of all good. Cowper.-- Boun"te*ous*ly, adv.-- Boun"te*ous*ness, n.
bountiful: Goodness; generosity. [Obs.] Spenser.
bouquetin: The ibex.
bour: A chamber or a cottage. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bourbon whisky: See under Whisky.
bourbonism: The principles of those adhering to the house of Bourbon;obstinate conservatism.
bourbonist: One who adheres to the house of Bourbon; a legitimist.
bourd: A jest. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bourder: A jester. [Obs.]
bourdon: A pilgrim's staff.
bourgeois: A size of type between long primer and brevier. See Type.
bourgeoisie: The French middle class, particularly such as are concerned in,or dependent on, trade.
bourgeon: To sprout; to put forth buds; to shoot forth, as a branch.Gayly to bourgeon and broadly to grow. Sir W. Scott.
bouri: A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europeand in Africa.
bournless: Without a bourn or limit.
bournonite: A mineral of a steel-gray to black color and metallic luster,occurring crystallized, often in twin crystals shaped like cogwheels(wheel ore), also massive. It is a sulphide of antimony, lead, andcopper.
bournous: See Burnoose.
bourree: An old French dance tune in common time.
bourse: An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet forbusiness at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris.
bouse: To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze.
bouser: A toper; a boozer.
boustrophedon: An ancient mode of writing, in alternate directions, one linefrom left to right, and the next from right to left (as fields areplowed), as in early Greek and Hittite.
boustrophedonic: Relating to the boustrophedon mode of writing.
boustrophic: Boustrophedonic.
bousy: Drunken; sotted; boozy.In his cups the bousy poet songs. Dryden.
boutade: An outbreak; a caprice; a whim. [Obs.]
boutefeu: An incendiary; an inciter of quarrels. [Obs.]Animated by . . . John à Chamber, a very boutefeu, . . . they enteredinto open rebellion. Bacon.
boutonniere: A bouquet worn in a buttonhole.
bouts-rimes: Words that rhyme, proposed as the ends of verses, to be filledout by the ingenuity of the person to whom they are offered.
bovate: An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; anancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usuallyestimated at fifteen acres.
bovey coal: A kind of mineral coal, or brown lignite, burning with a weakflame, and generally a disagreeable odor; -- found at Bovey Tracey,Devonshire, England. It is of geological age of the oölite, and notof the true coal era.
bovid: Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genusBos is the type.
boviform: Resembling an ox in form; ox-shaped. [R.]
bovine: of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling,the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope.
bow: An inclination of the head, or a bending of the body, in tokenof reverence, respect, civility, or submission; an obeisance; as, abow of deep humility.
bow hand: The hand that holds the bow, i. e., the left hand.Surely he shoots wide on the bow hand. Spenser.
bow net: .
bow oar: .
bow-bells: The bells of Bow Church in London; cockneydom.People born within the sound of Bow-bells are usually calledcockneys. Murray's Handbook of London.
bow-legged: Having crooked legs, esp. with the knees bent outward. Johnson.
bow-pen: Bow-compasses carrying a drawing pen. See Bow-compass.
bow-pencil: Bow-compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil.
bow-saw: A saw with a thin or narrow blade set in a strong frame.
bowable: Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced;yielding. [Obs.]
bowbell: One born within hearing distance of Bow-bells; a cockney.Halliwell.
bowbent: Bent, like a bow. Milton.
bowdlerize: To expurgate, as a book, by omitting or modifying the partsconsidered offensive.
bowel: Hence, figuratively
boweled: Having bowels; hollow. "The boweled cavern." Thomson.
bowelless: Without pity. Sir T. Browne.
bowenite: A hard, compact variety of serpentine found in Rhode Island. Itis of a light green color and resembles jade.
bower: An anchor carried at the bow of a ship.
bower bird: An Australian bird (Ptilonorhynchus violaceus or holosericeus),allied to the starling, which constructs singular bowers orplayhouses of twigs and decorates them with brightcolored objects;the satin bird.
bower-barff process: A certain process for producing upon articles of iron or steelan adherent coating of the magnetic oxide of iron (which is notliable to corrosion by air, moisture, or ordinary acids). This isaccomplished by producing, by oxidation at about 1600º F. in a closedspace, a coating containing more or less of the ferric oxide (Fe2O3)and the subsequent change of this in a reduced atmosphere to themagnetic oxide (Fe2O4).
bowery: Shading, like a bower; full of bowers.A bowery maze that shades the purple streams. Trumbull.
bowess: Same as Bower. [Obs.]
bowfin: A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh watersof the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, anddogfish.
bowge: To swell out. See Bouge. [Obs.]
bowgrace: A frame or fender of rope or junk, laid out at the sides orbows of a vessel to secure it from injury by floating ice.
bowhead: The great Arctic or Greenland whale. (Balæna mysticetus). SeeBaleen, and Whale.
bowie knife: A knife with a strong blade from ten to fifteen inches long,and double-edged near the point; -- used as a hunting knife, andformerly as a weapon in the southwestern part of the United States.It was named from its inventor, Colonel James Bowie. Also, byextension, any large sheath knife.
bowingly: In a bending manner.
bowknot: A knot in which a portion of the string is drawn through in theform of a loop or bow, so as to be readily untied.
bowl: An ancient game, popular in Great Britain, played with biasedballs on a level plat of greensward.Like an uninstructed bowler, . . . who thinks to attain the jack bydelivering his bowl straightforward upon it. Sir W. Scott.
bowldery: Characterized by bowlders.
bowleg: A crooked leg. Jer. Taylor.
bowler: One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or anyother game.
bowless: Destitute of a bow.
bowline: A rope fastened near the middle of the leech or perpendicularedge of the square sails, by subordinate ropes, called bridles, andused to keep the weather edge of the sail tight forward, when theship is closehauled. Bowline bridles, the ropes by which the bowlineis fastened to the leech of the sail.-- Bowline knot. See Illust. under Knot.-- On a bowline, close-hauled or sailing close to the wind; -- saidof a ship.
bowling: The act of playing at or rolling bowls, or of rolling the ballat cricket; the game of bowls or of tenpins. Bowling alley, a coveredplace for playing at bowls or tenpins.-- Bowling green, a level piece of greensward or smooth ground forbowling, as the small park in lower Broadway, New York, where theDutch of New Amsterdam played this game.
bowls: See Bowl, a ball, a game.
bowman: A man who uses a bow; an archer.The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen.Jer. iv. 29.Bowman's root. (Bot.) See Indian physic, under Indian.
bowne: To make ready; to prepare; to dress. [Obs.]We will all bowne ourselves for the banquet. Sir W. Scott.
bowse: To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i.e., to pull all together.
bowshot: The distance traversed by an arrow shot from a bow.
bowsprit: A large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship orother vessel, to carry sail forward.
bowssen: To drench; to soak; especially, to immerse (in water believedto have curative properties). [Obs.]There were many bowssening places, for curing of mad men. . . . Ifthere appeared small amendment he was bowssened again and again.Carew.
bowstring: To strangle with a bowstring.
bowtel: See Boultel.
bowwow: An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark.-- a.
box: A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world.The common box (Buxus sempervirens) has two varieties, one of which,the dwaft box (B.suffruticosa), is much used for borders in gardens.The wood of the tree varieties, being very hard and smooth, isextensively used in the arts, as by turners, engravers, mathematicalinstrument makers, etc. Box elder, the ash-leaved maple (Negundoaceroides), of North America.-- Box holly, the butcher's broom (Russus aculeatus).-- Box thorn, a shrub (Lycium barbarum).-- Box tree, the tree variety of the common box.
box kite: A kite, invented by Lawrence Hargrave, of Sydney, Australia,which consist of two light rectangular boxes, or cells open on twosides, and fastened together horizontally. Called also Hargrave, orcellular, kite.
box tail: In a flying machine, a tail or rudder, usually fixed,resembling a box kite.
box-iron: A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within.
boxberry: The wintergreern. (Gaultheria procumbens). [Local, U.S.]
boxen: Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus).[R.]The faded hue of sapless boxen leaves. Dryden.
boxer: One who packs boxes.
boxfish: The trunkfish.
boxhaul: To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short roundon her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the headyards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind). Totten.
boxhauling: A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul.
boxing: The external case of thin material used to bring any member toa required form.
boxing day: The first week day after Christmas, a legal holiday on whichChristmas boxes are given to postmen, errand boys, employees, etc.The night of this day is boxing night. [Eng.]
boxkeeper: An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes.
boxthorn: A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum.
boxwood: The wood of the box (Buxus).
boy: A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, ason.My only boy fell by the side of great Dundee. Sir W. Scott.
boy scout: Orig., a member of the "Boy Scouts," an organization of boysfounded in 1908, by Sir R. S. S. Baden-Powell, to promote goodcitizenship by creating in them a spirit of civic duty and ofusefulness to others, by stimulating their interest in wholesomemental, moral, industrial, and physical activities, etc. Hence, amember of any of the other similar organizations, which are nowworldwide. In "The Boy Scouts of America" the local councils aregenerally under a scout commissioner, under whose supervision arescout masters, each in charge of a troop of two or more patrols ofeight scouts each, who are of three classes, tenderfoot, second-classscout, and first-class scout.
boyau: A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication fromone siegework to another, to a magazine, etc.
boycott: To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or otherperson), to withhold social or business relations from him, and todeter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott.
boycotter: A participant in boycotting.
boycottism: Methods of boycotters.
boydekin: A dagger; a bodkin. [Obs.]
boyer: A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end. Sir W. Raleigh.
boyhood: The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy.Hood.
boyish: Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy;childish; trifling; puerile.A boyish, odd conceit. Baillie.
boyishly: In a boyish manner; like a boy.
boyishness: The manners or behavior of a boy.
boyism: See under Law.
boza: An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, madefrom millet seed and various astringent substances; also, anintoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water.[Written also bosa, bozah, bouza.]
brabantine: Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands.
brabble: To clamor; to contest noisily. [R.]
brabblement: A brabble. [R.] Holland.
brabbler: A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler. [R] Shak.
braccate: Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet.
brace: A piece of material used to transmit, or change the directionof, weight or pressure; any one of the pieces, in a frame or truss,which divide the structure into triangular parts. It may act as atie, or as a strut, and serves to prevent distortion of thestructure, and transverse strains in its members. A boiler brace is adiagonal stay, connecting the head with the shell.
brach: A bitch of the hound kind. Shak.
brachelytra: A group of beetles having short elytra, as the rove beetles.
brachia: See Brachium.
brachial: Pertaining or belonging to the arm; as, the brachial artery;the brachial nerve.
brachiata: A division of the Crinoidea, including those furnished withlong jointed arms. See Crinoidea.
brachiate: Having branches in pairs, decussated, all nearly horizontal,and each pair at right angles with the next, as in the maple andlilac.
brachioganoid: One of the Brachioganoidei.
brachioganoidei: An order of ganoid fishes of which the bichir of Africa is aliving example. See Crossopterygii.
brachiolaria: (Zoöl.) A peculiar early larval stage of certain starfishes,having a bilateral structure, and swimming by means of bands ofvibrating cilia.
brachiopod: One of the Brachiopoda, or its shell.
brachiopoda: A class of Molluscoidea having a symmetrical bivalve shell,often attached by a fleshy peduncle.
brachium: The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between theshoulder and the elbow.
brachman: See Brahman. [Obs.]
brachycatalectic: A verse wanting two syllables at its termination.
brachyceral: Having short antennæ, as certain insects.
brachydiagonal: Pertaining to the shorter diagonal, as of a rhombic prism.Brachydiagonal axis, the shorter lateral axis of an orthorhombiccrystal.
brachydome: A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome.
brachygrapher: A writer in short hand; a stenographer.He asked the brachygrapher whether he wrote the notes of the sermon.Gayton.
brachygraphy: Stenograhy. B. Jonson.
brachylogy: Conciseness of expression; brevity.
brachypinacoid: A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both tothe vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis.
brachyptera: A group of Coleoptera having short wings; the rove beetles.
brachypteres: A group of birds, including auks, divers, and penguins.
brachypterous: Having short wings.
brachystochrone: A curve, in which a body, starting from a given point, anddescending solely by the force of gravity, will reach another givenpoint in a shorter time than it could by any other path. This curveof quickest descent, as it is sometimes called, is, in a vacuum, thesame as the cycloid.
brachytypous: Of a short form.
brachyura: A group of decapod Crustacea, including the common crabs,characterized by a small and short abdomen, which is bent up beneaththe large cephalo-thorax. [Also spelt Brachyoura.] See Crab, andIllustration in Appendix.
brachyuran: One of the Brachyura.
bracing: Imparting strength or tone; strengthening; invigorating; as, abracing north wind.
brack: An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack orbreach; a flaw.Stain or brack in her sweet reputation. J. Fletcher.
bracken: A brake or fern. Sir W. Scott.
bracket: An architectural member, plain or ornamental, projecting from awall or pier, to support weight falling outside of the same; also, adecorative feature seeming to discharge such an office.
bracketing: A series or group of brackets; brackets, collectively.
brackish: Saltish, or salt in a moderate degree, as water in saline soil.Springs in deserts found seem sweet, all brackish though they be.Byron.
brackishness: The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt.
bracky: Brackish. Drayton.
bractea: A bract.
bracteal: Having the nature or appearance of a bract.
bracteate: Having a bract or bracts.
bracted: Furnished with bracts.
bracteolate: Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets.
bracteole: Same as Bractlet.
bractless: Destitute of bracts.
bractlet: A bract on the stalk of a single flower, which is itself on amain stalk that support several flowers. Gray.
brad: A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the topon one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flatcircular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishingnail, with a countersunk head.
brad awl: A straight awl with chisel edge, used to make holes for brads,etc. Weale.
bradoon: Same as Bridoon.
brae: A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill. [Scot.] Burns.
brag: To talk about one's self, or things pertaining to one's self,in a manner intended to excite admiration, envy, or wonder; to talkboastfully; to boast; -- often followed by of; as, to brag of one'sexploits, courage, or money, or of the great things one intends todo.Conceit, more rich in matter than in words, Brags of his substance,not of ornament. Shak.
braggardism: Boastfulness; act of bragging. Shak.
braggart: A boaster.O, I could play the woman with mine eyes, And braggart with mytongue. Shak.
bragger: One who brags; a boaster.
bragget: A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc.[Obs.] B. Jonson.
braggingly: Boastingly.
bragless: Without bragging. [R.] Shak.
bragly: In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly. [Obs.] Spenser.
brahma: The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods. Thetriad consists of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, andSiva, the Destroyer.
brahmaness: A Brahmani.
brahmani: Any Brahman woman. [Written also Brahmanee.]
brahmin-ical: Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines andworship.
brahmo-somaj: A modern reforming theistic sect among the Hindos. [Writtenalso Brahma-samaj.]
brahmoism: The religious system of Brahmo-somaj. Balfour.
braid: To start; to awake. [Obs.] Chaucer.
brail: A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.
braille: A system of printing or writing for the blind in which thecharacters are represented by tangible points or dots. It wasinvented by Louis Braille, a French teacher of the blind.
brain: The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervoussystem, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosedin the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals. It issimply the anterior termination of the spinal cord, and is developedfrom three embryonic vesicles, whose cavities are connected with thecentral canal of the cord; the cavities of the vesicles become thecentral cavities, or ventricles, and the walls thicken unequally andbecome the three segments, the fore-, mid-, and hind-brain.
brained: Supplied with brains.If th' other two be brained like us. Shak.
brainish: Hot-headed; furious. [R.] Shak.
brainless: Without understanding; silly; thougthless; witless.-- Brain"less*ness, n.
brainpan: The bones which inclose the brain; the skull; the cranium.
brainsick: Disordered in the understanding; giddy; thoughtless.-- Brain"sick*ness, n.
brainsickly: In a brainsick manner.
brainy: Having an active or vigorous mind. [Colloq.]
braise: To stew or broil in a covered kettle or pan.A braising kettle has a deep cover which holds coals; consequentlythe cooking is done from above, as well as below. Mrs. Henderson.
braiser: A kettle or pan for braising.
brait: A rough diamond.
braize: See Braise.
brake: of Break. [Arhaic] Tennyson.
brakeman: A man in charge of a brake or brakes.
braky: Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns;rough; thorny.In the woods and braky glens. W. Browne.
brama: See Brahma.
bramah press: A hydrostatic press of immense power, invented by Joseph Bramahof London. See under Hydrostatic.
bramble: Any plant of the genus Rubus, including the raspberry andblackberry. Hence
bramble bush: The bramble, or a collection of brambles growing together.He jumped into a bramble bush And scratched out both his eyes. MotherGoose.
bramble net: A net to catch birds.
brambled: Overgrown with brambles.Forlorn she sits upon the brambled floor. T. Warton.
brambling: The European mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla); --called also bramble finch and bramble.
brambly: Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles. "In bramblywildernesses." Tennyson.
brame: Sharp passion; vexation. [Obs.]Heart-burning brame. Spenser.
bran: The European carrion crow.
bran-new: See Brand-new.
brancard: A litter on which a person may be carried. [Obs.] Coigrave.
branch: A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from aprincipal limb or bough of a tree or other plant.
branch pilot: A pilot who has a branch or commission, as from Trinity House,England, for special navigation.
brancher: A young hawk when it begins to leave the nest and take to thebranches.
branchery: A system of branches.
branchia: A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained inwater, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.
branchial: Of or pertaining to branchiæ or gills. Branchial arches, thebony or cartilaginous arches which support the gills on each side ofthe throat of fishes and amphibians. See Illustration in Appendix.-- Branchial clefts, the openings between the branchial archesthrough which water passes.
branchiate: Furnished with branchiæ; as, branchiate segments.
branchiferous: Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods.
branchiness: Fullness of branches.
branching: Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in abranch or branches.Shaded with branching palm. Milton.
branchiogastropoda: Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiæ, including theProsobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata.
branchiomerism: The state of being made up of branchiate segments. R.Wiedersheim.
branchiopod: One of the Branchiopoda.
branchiopoda: An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet ofbranchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills.It includes the fresh-water genera Branchipus, Apus, and Limnadia,and the genus Artemia found in salt lakes. It is also calledPhyllopoda. See Phyllopoda, Cladocera. It is sometimes used in abroader sense.
branchiostegal: Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes.-- n. (Anat.)
branchiostege: The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.
branchiostegous: Branchiostegal.
branchiostoma: The lancelet. See Amphioxus.
branchiura: A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, includingspecies parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus).
branchless: Destitude of branches or shoots; without any valuable product;barren; naked.
branchlet: A little branch; a twig.
branchy: Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting ofbranches.Beneath thy branchy bowers of thickest gloom. J. Scott.
brand: Any minute fungus which produces a burnt appearance in plants.The brands are of many species and several genera of the orderPucciniæi.
brand goose: A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) usually called inAmerica brant. See Brant.
brand spore: One of several spores growing in a series or chain, andproduced by one of the fungi called brand.
brand-new: Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.
brandenburg: A kind of decoration for the breast of a coat, sometimes only afrog with a loop, but in some military uniforms enlarged into a broadhorizontal stripe.
brandied: Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy;flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.
branding iron: An iron to brand with.
brandish: A flourish, as with a weapon, whip, etc. "Brandishes of thefan." Tailer.
brandisher: One who brandishes.
brandle: To shake; to totter. [Obs.]
brandy: A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine. The name is alsogiven to spirit distilled from other liquors, and in the UnitedStates to that distilled from cider and peaches. In northern Europe,it is also applied to a spirit obtained from grain. Brandy fruit,fruit preserved in brandy and sugar.
brandywine: Brandy. [Obs.] Wiseman.
brangle: A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute. [R.]A brangle between him and his neighbor. Swift.
branglement: Wrangle; brangle. [Obs.]
brangler: A quarrelsome person.
brangling: A quarrel. [R.] Whitlock.
brank: Buckwheat. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell.
brankursine: Bear's-breech, or Acanthus.
branlin: A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverseblack bands, as if burned by a gridiron.
branny: Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containingbran. Wiseman.
bransle: A brawl or dance. [Obs.] Spenser.
brant: A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brentand brand goose. The name is also applied to other related species.
brant-fox: A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than thecommon fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it.
brantail: The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of itstail.
branular: Relating to the brain; cerebral. I. Taylor.
brasen: Same as Brazen.
brash: Hasty in temper; impetuous. Grose.
brashy: An artificer who works in brass. Franklin.
brasque: A paste made by mixing powdered charcoal, coal, or coke withclay, molasses, tar, or other suitable substance. It is used forlining hearths, crucibles, etc. Called also steep.
brass: A journal bearing, so called because frequently made of brass.A brass is often lined with a softer metal, when the latter isgenerally called a white metal lining. See Axle box, Journal Box, andBearing.
brass-visaged: Impudent; bold.
brassage: A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- nowcalled seigniorage.
brassart: Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from theshoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16thcenturies, of many parts.
brasse: A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling aperch.
brassets: See Brassart.
brassica: A genus of plants embracing several species ad varietiesdiffering much in appearance and qualities
brassicaceous: Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of theCabbage family.
brassiere: A form of woman's underwaist stiffened with whalebones, or thelike, and worn to support the breasts.
brassiness: The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy. [Colloq.]
brast: To burst. [Obs.]And both his yën braste out of his face. Chaucer.Dreadfull furies which their chains have brast. Spenser.
brat: A thin bed of coal mixed with pyrites or carbonate of lime.
bratsche: The tenor viola, or viola.
brattishing: Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet.
braunite: A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color. Itwas named from a Mr. Braun of Gotha.
bravade: Bravado. [Obs.] Fanshawe.
bravado: Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.In spite of our host's bravado. Irving.
braveness: The quality of state or being brave.
braving: A bravado; a boast.With so proud a strain Of threats and bravings. Chapman.
bravingly: In a defiant manner.
bravo: A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; aprofessional assassin or murderer.Safe from detection, seize the unwary prey. And stab, like bravoes,all who come this way. Churchill.
bravura: A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to showthe range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical forceand skill of a performer; virtuoso music. Aria di bravura ( Etym:[It.], a florid air demanding brilliant execution.
brawl: A noisy quarrel; loud, angry contention; a wrangle; a tumult;as, a drunken brawl.His sports were hindered by the brawls. Shak.
brawler: One that brawls; wrangler. Common brawler (Law), one whodisturbs a neighborhood by brawling (and is therefore indictable atcommon law as a nuisance). Wharton.
brawlingly: In a brawling manner.
brawned: Brawny; strong; muscular. [Obs.] Spenser.
brawner: A boor killed for the table.
brawniness: The quality or state of being brawny.
brawny: Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. "Brawnylimbs." W. Irving.
bray: To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine.Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar, . . . yet will not hisfoolishness depart from him. Prov. xxvii. 22.
brayer: An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.
braying: Making a harsh noise; blaring. "Braying trumpets." Shak.
braze: To cover or ornament with brass. Chapman.
brazen: To carry through impudently or shamelessly; as, to brazen thematter through.Sabina brazened it out before Mrs. Wygram, but inwardly she wasresolved to be a good deal more circumspect. W. Black.
brazen-browed: Shamelessly impudent. Sir T. Browne.
brazenface: An impudent of shameless person. "Well said, brazenface; holdit out." Shak.
brazenfaced: Impudent; shameless.
brazenly: In a bold, impudent manner.
brazenness: The quality or state of being brazen. Johnson.
brazier: Same as Brasier.
brazil nut: An oily, three-sided nut, the seed of the Bertholletia excelsa;the cream nut.
braziletto: See Brazil wood.
brazilian: Of or pertaining to Brasil.-- n.
brazilin: A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, fromwhich it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which iswhite when pure. It is colored intensely red by alkalies. [Writtenalso brezilin.]
breach: A hernia; a rupture.
breachy: Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as,breachy cattle.
bread: To spread. [Obs.] Ray.
breadbasket: The stomach. [Humorous] S. Foote.
breadcorn: Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc.
breaded: Braided [Obs.] Spenser.
breaden: Made of bread. [R.]
breadfruit: The tree itself, which is one of considerable size, with large,lobed leaves. Cloth is made from the bark, and the timber is used formany purposes. Called also breadfruit tree and bread tree.
breadless: Without bread; destitude of food.Plump peers and breadless bards alike are dull. P. Whitehead.
breadroot: The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found nearthe Rocky Mountains. It is usually oval in form, and abounds infarinaceous matter, affording sweet and palatable food.
breadstuff: Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made.
breadthless: Without breadth.
breadthways: Breadthwise. Whewell.
breadthwise: In the direction of the breadth.
breadwinner: The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of thefamily; one who works for his living. H. Spencer.
break: See Commutator.
break-circuit: A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit.
break-up: Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts ormembers; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up ofthe government.
breakable: Capable of being broken.
breakaway: A wild rush of sheep, cattle, horses, or camels (especially atthe smell or the sight of water); a stampede.
breakbone fever: See Dengue.
breaker: A small water cask. Totten.
breakfast: To break one's fast in the morning; too eat the first meal inthe day.First, sir, I read, and then I breakfast. Prior.
breakman: See Brakeman.
breakneck: Producing danger of a broken neck; as, breakneck speed.
breakwater: Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouthof a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection fromtheir violence.
bream: A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis,little valued as food. Several species are known.
breast: To meet, with the breast; to struggle with or oppose manfully;as, to breast the storm or waves.The court breasted the popular current by sustaining the demurrer.Wirt.To breast up a hedge, to cut the face of it on one side so as to laybare the principal upright stems of the plants.
breast-deep: Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast.See him breast-deep in earth, and famish him. Shak.
breast-high: High as the breast.
breastband: A band for the breast. Specifically
breastbeam: The front transverse beam of a locomotive.
breastbone: The bone of the breast; the sternum.
breasted: Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words,in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breastedcoat.The close minister is buttoned up, and the brave officer open-breasted, on these occasions. Spectator.
breastfast: A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf,or to another vessel.
breastheight: The interior slope of a fortification, against which thegarnison lean in firing.
breasthook: A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed acrossthe stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows oneach side. Totten.
breasting: The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns. It is closelyadapted to the curve of the wheel through about a quarter of itscircumference, and prevents the escape of the water until it hasspent its force upon the wheel. See Breast wheel.
breastknot: A pin worn of the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; abrooch.
breastpin: A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; abrooch.
breastplate: A part of the vestment of the high priest, worn upon the frontof the ephod. It was a double piece of richly embroidered stuff, aspan square, set with twelve precious stones, on which were engravedthe names of the twelve tribes of Israel. See Ephod.
breastrail: The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of abalcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc.
breastrope: See Breastband.
breastsummer: A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, andsupporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a longlintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows. [Writtenalso brestsummer and bressummer.]
breastwheel: A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither sohigh as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, butgenerally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept incontact with it by the breasting. The water acts on the float boardspartly by impulse, partly by its weight.
breastwork: A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, ofearth or other material.
breathable: Such as can be breathed.
breathableness: State of being breathable.
breathe: To utter without vocality, as the nonvocal consonants.The same sound may be pronounces either breathed, voiced, orwhispered. H. Sweet.Breathed elements, being already voiceless, remain unchanged
breathful: Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant. [Obs.]
breathing: A mark to indicate aspiration or its absence. See Roughbreathing, Smooth breathing, below. Breathing place. (a) A pause."That cæsura, or breathing place, in the midst of the verse." Sir P.Sidney. (b) A vent.-- Breathing time, pause; relaxation. Bp. Hall.-- Breathing while, time sufficient for drawing breath; a shorttime. Shak.-- Rough breathing (spiritus asper) (. See 2d Asper, n.-- Smooth breathing (spiritus lenis), a mark (') indicating theabsence of the sound of h, as in 'ie`nai (ienai).
breathlessly: In a breathless manner.
breathlessness: The state of being breathless or out of breath.
breccia: A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineralor of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonlypresenting a variety of colors. Bone breccia, a breccia containingbones, usually fragmentary.-- Coin breccia, a breccia containing coins.
brecciated: Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resemblingbreccia in appearance.The brecciated appearance of many specimens [of meteorites]. H. A.Newton.
bred: imp. & p. p. of Breed. Bred out, degenerated. "The strain ofman's bred out into baboon and monkey." Shak.-- Bred to arms. See under Arms.-- Well bred. (a) Of a good family; having a good pedigree. "Agentleman well bred and of good name." Shak. [Obs., except as appliedto domestic animals.] (b) Well brought up, as shown in having goodmanners; cultivated; refined; polite.
brede: A braid. [R.]Half lapped in glowing gauze and golden brede. Tennyson.
breech: The external angle of knee timber, the inside of which iscalled the throat.
breech action: The breech mechanism in breech-loading small arms and certainspecial guns, as automatic and machine guns; --used frequently inreferring to the method by which the movable barrels of breech-loading shotguns are locked, unlocked, or rotated to loadingposition.
breech sight: A device attached to the breech of a firearm, to guide the eye,in conjunction with the front sight, in taking aim.
breech-loading: Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.
breechblock: The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loadingfirearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge. It iswithdrawn for the insertion of a cartridge, and closed again beforethe gun is fired.
breechcloth: A cloth worn around the breech.
breeching: A strong rope rove through the cascabel of a cannon and securedto ringbolts in the ship's side, to limit the recoil of the gun whenit is discharged.
breechloader: A firearm which receives its load at the breech.For cavalry, the revolver and breechloader will supersede the saber.Rep. Sec. War (1860).
breedbate: One who breeds or originates quarrels. [Obs.] "No telltale norno breedbate." Shak.
breeding: A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidæ, noted forbuzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; --called also horsefly, and gadfly. They are among the largest of two-winged or dipterous insects. The name is also given to differentspecies of botflies. [Written also breese and brize.]
breeze: Refuse coal, coal ashes, and cinders, used in the burning ofbricks.
breezeless: Motionless; destitute of breezes.A stagnant, breezeless air becalms my soul. Shenstone.
breeziness: State of being breezy.
bregma: The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures ofthe skull.
bregmatic: Pertaining to the bregma.
brehon: An ancient Irish or Scotch judge. Brehon laws, the ancientIrish laws, -- unwritten, like the common law of England. They wereabolished by statute of Edward III.
brelan carre: In French games, a double pair royal.
brelan favori: In French games, a pair royal composed of 2 cards in the handand the card turned.
breloque: A seal or charm for a watch chain. "His chains and breloques."Thackeray.
breme: To burn. [Obs.] Chaucer.Consuming fire brent his shearing house or stall. W. Browne.
bren: Bran. [Obs.] Chaucer.
brennage: A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran,which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds.
brenningly: Burningly; ardently. [Obs.]
brent: of Bren. Burnt. [Obs.]
brequet chain: A watch-guard.
brere: A brier. [Archaic] Chaucer.
brest: for Bursteth. [Obs.]
breste: To burst. [Obs.] Chaucer.
brestsummer: See Breastsummer.
bret: See Birt.
bretful: Brimful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
brethren: pl. of Brother.
breton: Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France.-- n.
brett: Same as Britzska.
brettice: The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls ofcoal mines. See Brattice.
bretwalda: The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxonchieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in theirwarfare against the British tribes. Brande & C.
bretzel: See Pretzel.
breve: A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves orfour minims. When dotted, it is equal to three semibreves. It wasformerly of a square figure (as thus
brevet: A commission giving an officer higher rank than that for whichhe receives pay; an honorary promotion of an officer.
brevetcy: The rank or condition of a brevet officer.
breviate: To abbreviate. [Obs.]
breviature: An abbreviature; an abbreviation. [Obs.] Johnson.
brevier: A size of type between bourgeous and minion.
breviloquence: A brief and pertinent mode of speaking. [R.]
breviped: Having short legs.-- n.
brevipen: A brevipennate bird.
brevipennate: Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing totheir short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.
brew: The mixture formed by brewing; that which is brewed. Bacon.
brewage: Malt liquor; drink brewed. "Some well-spiced brewage." Milton.A rich brewage, made of the best Spanish wine. Macaulay.
brewer: One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.
brewery: A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing iscarried on.
brewhouse: A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery.
brewing: A gathering or forming of a storm or squall, indicated bythick, dark clouds.
brewsterite: A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystalswith pearly luster. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia, baryta, andstrontia.
brezilin: See Brazilin.
briar: Same as Brier.
briarean: Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to havea hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed.
bribable: Capable of being bribed.A more bribable class of electors. S. Edwards.
bribeless: Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.From thence to heaven's bribeless hall. Sir W. Raleigh.
bribery: Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art,considered collectively. A piece of bric-a-brac, any curious orantique article of virtu, as a piece of antiquated furniture or metalwork, or an odd knickknack.
brickbat: A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4. Bacon.
brickfielder: Orig., at Sydney, a cold and violent south or southwest wind,rising suddenly, and regularly preceded by a hot wind from the north;-- now usually called southerly buster. It blew across theBrickfields, formerly so called, a district of Sydney, and carriedclouds of dust into the city.
brickkiln: A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or apile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receivethe wood or fuel for burning them.
bricklayer: One whose pccupation is to build with bricks. Bricklayer'sitch. See under Itch.
bricklaying: The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cementor mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks.
brickle: Brittle; easily broken. [Obs. or Prov.] Spenser.As stubborn steel excels the brickle glass. Turbervile.
brickleness: Brittleness. [Obs.]
brickmaker: One whose occupation is to make bricks.-- Brick"mak*ing, n.
bricky: Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brickdust. [R.] Spenser.
brickyard: A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place.
bricole: A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag andmaneuver guns where horses can not be used.
brid: A bird. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bridal: Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridalornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber.
bridalty: Celebration of the nuptial feast. [Obs.] "In honor of thisbridalty." B. Jonson.
bride: To make a bride of. [Obs.]
bride-ale: A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale.The man that 's bid to bride-ale, if he ha' cake, And drink enough,he need not fear his stake. B. Jonson.
bridebed: The marriage bed. [Poetic]
bridecake: Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guestsat a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding.
bridechamber: The nuptial appartment. Matt. ix. 15.
bridegroom: A man newly married, or just about to be married.
brideknot: A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a weddingfavor. [Obs.]
bridesmaid: A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.
bridesman: A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at theirmarriage; the "best man." Sir W. Scott.
bridestake: A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding todance round.Divide the broad bridecake Round about the bridestake. B. Jonson.
bridewell: A house of correction for the confinement of disorderlypersons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's(or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penalworkhouse.
bridge: The small arch or bar at right angles to the strings of aviolin, guitar, etc., serving of raise them and transmit theirvibrations to the body of the instrument.
bridgeboard: A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps ofwooden stairs are fastened.
bridgehead: A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearestthe enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge,and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tête-de-pont.
bridgeless: Having no bridge; not bridged.
bridgepot: The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle. Knight.
bridgetree: The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in agrinding mill. Knight.
bridgey: Full of bridges. [R.] Sherwood.
bridle: The piece in the interior of a gun lock, which holds in placethe timbler, sear, etc.
bridle iron: A strong flat bar of iron, so bent as to support, as in astirrup, one end of a floor timber, etc., where no sufficient bearingcan be had; -- called also stirrup and hanger.
bridler: One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with abridle. Milton.
bridoon: The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which actsindependently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider. It is used inconnection with a curb bit, which has its own rein. Campbell.
brie cheese: A kind of soft French cream cheese; -- so called from thedistrict in France where it is made; --called also fromage de Brie.
brief: An abridgment or concise statement of a client's case, made outfor the instruction of counsel in a trial at law. This word isapplied also to a statement of the heads or points of a law argument.It was not without some reference to it that I perused many a brief.Sir J. Stephen.
briefless: Having no brief; without clients; as, a briefless barrister.
briefly: Concisely; in few words.
briefness: The quality of being brief; brevity; conciseness in discourseor writing.
briered: Set with briers. Chatterton.
briery: Full of briers; thorny.
brig: A bridge. [Scot.] Burns.
brigade: A body of troops, whether cavalry, artillery, infantry, ormixed, consisting of two or more regiments, under the command of abrigadier general.
brigadier general: An officer in rank next above a colonel, and below a majorgeneral. He commands a brigade, and is sometimes called, by ashortening of his title, simple a brigadier.
brigandage: Life and practice of brigands; highway robbery; plunder.
brigandine: A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates,sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed tolinen or other material. It was worn in the Middle Ages. [Writtenalso brigantine.] Jer. xlvi. 4.Then put on all thy gorgeous arms, thy helmet, And brigandine ofbrass. Milton.
brigandish: Like a brigand or freebooter; robberlike.
brigandism: Brigandage.
brigge: A bridge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
bright: See Brite, v. i.
bright-harnessed: Having glittering armor. [Poetic] Milton.
brighten: To grow bright, or more bright; to become less dark or gloomy;to clear up; to become bright or cheerful.And night shall brighten into day. N. Cotton.And, all his prospects brightening to the last, His heaven commencesere world be past. Goldsmith.
brightness: An affection of the kidneys, usually inflammatory in character,and distinguished by the occurrence of albumin and renal casts in theurine. Several varieties of Bright's disease are now recognized,differing in the part of the kidney involved, and in the intensityand course of the morbid process.
brightsome: Bright; clear; luminous; brilliant. [R.] Marlowe.
brigose: Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Puller.
brigue: A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel.[Obs.] Chesterfield.
brike: A breach; ruin; downfall; peril. [Obs.] Chaucer.
brill: A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed inEngland for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill. See Bret.
brillante: In a gay, showy, and sparkling style.
brilliance: Brilliancy. Tennyson.
brilliancy: The quality of being brilliant; splendor; glitter; greatbrighness, whether in a literal or figurative sense.With many readers brilliancy of style passes for affluence ofthought. Longfellow.
brilliant: The small size of type used in England printing.
brilliantly: In a brilliant manner.
brilliantness: Brilliancy; splendor; glitter.
brills: The hair on the eyelids of a horse. Bailey.
brim: To be full to the brim. "The brimming stream." Milton. To brimover (literally or figuratively), to be so full that some of thecontents flows over the brim; as, cup brimming over with wine; a manbrimming over with fun.
brimful: Full to the brim; completely full; ready to overflow. "Herbrimful eyes." Dryden.
brimless: Having no brim; as, brimless caps.
brimmer: A brimful bowl; a bumper.
brimming: Full to the brim; overflowing.
brimstone: Sulphur; See Sulphur.
brimstony: Containing or resembling brimstone; sulphurous. B. Jonson.
brin: One of the radiating sticks of a fan. The outermost are largerand longer, and are called panaches. Knight.
brinded: Of a gray or tawny color with streaks of darker hue; streaked;brindled. "Three brinded cows," Dryden. "The brinded cat." Shak.
brindle: Brindled.
brindled: Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground;brinded. "With a brindled lion played." Churchill.
bringer: One who brings.Yet the first bringer of unwelcome news Hath but a losing office.Shak.Bringer in, one who, or that which, introduces.
brininess: The state or quality of being briny; saltness; brinishness.
brinish: Like brine; somewhat salt; saltish. "Brinish tears." Shak.
brinishness: State or quality of being brinish.
brinjaree: A rough-haired East Indian variety of the greyhound.
brink: The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of aprecipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border;as, the brink of a chasm. Also Fig. "The brink of vice." Bp. Porteus."The brink of ruin." Burke.The plashy brink of weedy lake. Bryant.
briny: Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of thenature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood.
briolette: An oval or pearshaped diamond having its entire surface cut intriangular facets.
briony: See Bryony. Tennyson.
brisk: To make or become lively; to enliven; to animate; to take, orcause to take, an erect or bold attitude; -- usually with up.
brisket: That part of the breast of an animal which extends from thefore legs back beneath the ribs; also applied to the fore part of ahorse, from the shoulders to the bottom of the chest.
briskly: In a brisk manner; nimbly.
briskness: Liveliness; vigor in action; quickness; gayety; vivacity;effervescence.
bristle: A stiff, sharp, roundish hair. Gray.
bristle-pointed: Terminating in a very fine, sharp point, as some leaves.
bristle-shaped: Resembling a bristle in form; as, a bristle-shaped leaf.
bristletail: An insect of the genera Lepisma, Campodea, etc., belonging tothe Thysanura.
bristliness: The quality or state of having bristles.
bristly: THick set with bristles, or with hairs resembling bristles;rough.The leaves of the black mulberry are somewhat bristly. Bacon.
bristol: A seaport city in the west of England. Bristol board, a kind offine pasteboard, made with a smooth but usually unglazed surface.-- Bristol brick, a brick of siliceous matter used for polishingcultery; -- originally manufactured at Bristol.-- Bristol stone, rock crystal, or brilliant crystals of quartz,found in the mountain limestone near Bristol, and used in makingornaments, vases, etc. When polished, it is called Bristol diamond.
brisure: Any part of a rampart or parapet which deviates from thegeneral direction.
britannia: A white-metal alloy of tin, antimony, bismuth, copper, etc. Itsomewhat resembles silver, and isused for table ware. Called alsoBritannia metal.
britannic: Of or pertaining to Great Britain; British; as, her BritannicMajesty.
briticism: A word, phrase, or idiom peculiar to Great Britain; any mannerof using a word or words that is peculiar to Great Britain.
british: Of or pertaining to Great Britain or to its inhabitants; --sometimes restrict to the original inhabitants. British gum, abrownish substance, very soluble in cold water, formed by heating drystarch at a temperature of about 600° Fahr. It corresponds, in itsproperties, to dextrin, and is used, in solution, as a substitute forgum in stiffering goods.-- British lion, the national emblem of Great Britain.-- British seas, the four seas which surround Great Britain.
britisher: An Englishman; a subject or inhabitant of Great Britain, esp.one in the British military or naval service. [Now used jocosely]
briton: British. [Obs.] Spenser.-- n.
brittle: Easily broken; apt to break; fragile; not tough or tenacious.Farewell, thou pretty, brittle piece Of fine-cut crystal. Cotton.Brittle silver ore, the mineral stephanite.
brittle star: Any species of ophiuran starfishes. See Ophiuroidea.
brittlely: In a brittle manner. Sherwood.
brittleness: Aptness to break; fragility.
britzska: A long carriage, with a calash top, so constructed as to givespace for reclining at night, when used on a journey.
brize: The breeze fly. See Breeze. Shak.
broach: A broad chisel for stonecutting.
broad: Characterized by breadth. See Breadth.
broad church: A portion of the Church of England, consisting of persons whoclaim to hold a position, in respect to doctrine and fellowship,intermediate between the High Church party and the Low Church, orevangelical, party. The term has been applied to otherbodies of menholding liberal or comprehensive views of Christian doctrine andfellowship.Side by side with these various shades of High and Low Church,another party of a different character has always existed in theChurch of England. It is called by different names
broad gauge: A wider distance between the rails than the "standard" gauge offour feet eight inches and a half. See Gauge.
broad seal: The great seal of England; the public seal of a country orstate.
broad-brimmed: Having a broad brim.A broad-brimmed flat silver plate. Tatler.
broad-horned: Having horns spreading widely.
broadbill: A wild duck (Aythya, or Fuligula, marila), which appears inlarge numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; -- called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck. SeeScaup duck.
broadcast: A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the handin sowing.
broadcloth: A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually ofdouble width (i.e., a yard and a half); -- so called in distinctionfrom woolens three quarters of a yard wide.
broaden: To grow broad; to become broader or wider.The broadening sun appears. Wordsworth.
broadish: Rather broad; moderately broad.
broadleaf: A tree (Terminalia latifolia) of Jamaica, the wood of which isused for boards, scantling, shingles, etc; -- sometimes called thealmond tree, from the shape of its fruit.
broadly: In a broad manner.
broadmouth: One of the Eurylaimidæ, a family of East Indian passerinebirds.
broadness: The condition or quality of being broad; breadth; coarseness;grossness.
broadpiece: An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolusor Jacobus.
broadseal: To stamp with the broad seal; to make sure; to guarantee orwarrant. [Obs.]Thy presence broadseals our delights for pure. B. Jonson.
broadside: The side of a ship above the water line, from the bow to thequarter.
broadspread: Widespread.
broadspreading: Spreading widely.
broadsword: A sword with a broad blade and a cutting edge; a claymore.I heard the broadsword's deadly clang. Sir W. Scott.
broadwise: Breadthwise. [Archaic]
brob: A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end ofan abutting timber to prevent its slipping.
brobdingnagian: Colossal' of extraordinary height; gigantic.-- n.
brocade: Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamentedwith raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffsthus wrought and enriched.A gala suit of faded brocade. W. Irving.
brocage: See Brokkerage.
brocard: An elementary principle or maximum; a short, proverbial rule,in law, ethics, or metaphysics.The legal brocard, "Falsus in uno, falsus in omnibus," is a rule notmore applicable to other witness than to consciousness. Sir W.Hamilton.
brocatello: Same as Brocatel.
broccoli: A plant of the Cabbage species (Brassica oleracea) of manyvarieties, resembling the cauliflower. The "curd," or flowering head,is the part used for food.
brochantite: A basic sulphate of copper, occurring in emerald-greencrystals.
broche: Woven with a figure; as, broché goods.
brochette: A small spit or skewer.
brochure: A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; apamphlet.
brock: A badger.Or with pretense of chasing thence the brock. B. Jonson.
brocket: A male red deer two years old; -- sometimes called brock.
brockish: Beastly; brutal. [Obs.] Bale.
brodekin: A buskin or half-boot. [Written also brodequin.] [Obs.]
brog: A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle,or a small ship stick.
brogan: A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue.
broggle: To sniggle, or fish with a brog. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
brogues: Breeches. [Obs.] Shenstone.
broid: To braid. [Obs.] Chaucer.
broider: To embroider. [Archaic]They shall make a broidered coat. Ex. xxviii. 4.
broiderer: One who embroiders. [Archaic]
broidery: Embroidery. [Archaic]The golden broidery tender Milkah wove. Tickell.
broil: A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention;discord, either between individuals or in the state.I will own that there is a haughtiness and fierceness in human naturewhich will which will cause innumerable broils, place men in whatsituation you please. Burke.
broiler: One who excites broils; one who engages in or promotes noisyquarrels.What doth he but turn broiler, . . . make new libels against thechurch Hammond.
broiling: Excessively hot; as, a broiling sun.-- n.
brokage: See Brokerage.
broke: imp. & p. p. of Break.
broken breast: Abscess of the mammary gland.
broken wind: The heaves.
broken-backed: Hogged; so weakened in the frame as to droop at each end; --said of a ship. Totten.
broken-bellied: Having a ruptured belly. [R.]
broken-hearted: Having the spirits depressed or crushed by grief or despair.She left her husband almost broken-hearted. Macaulay.
broken-winded: Having short breath or disordered respiration, as a horse.
brokenly: In a broken, interrupted manner; in a broken state; in brokenlanguage.The pagans worship God . . . as it were brokenly and by piecemeal.Cudworth.
broker: An agent employed to effect bargains and contracts, as amiddleman or negotiator, between other persons, for a compensationcommonly called brokerage. He takes no possession, as broker, of thesubject matter of the negotiation. He generally contracts in thenames of those who employ him, and not in his own. Story.
brokerly: Mean; servile. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
brokery: The business of a broker. [Obs.]And with extorting, cozening, forfeiting, And tricks belonging untobrokery. Marlowe.
broking: Of or pertaining to a broker or brokers, or to brokerage.[Obs.]Redeem from broking pawn the blemished crown. Shak.
broma: Aliment; food. Dunglison.
bromal: An oily, colorless fluid, CBr
bromalin: A colorless or white crystalline compound, (CH2)6N4C2H5Br, usedas a sedative in epilepsy.
bromanil: A substance analogous to chloranil but containing bromine inplace of chlorine.
bromate: A salt of bromic acid.
bromatologist: One versed in the science of foods.
bromatology: The science of aliments. Dunglison.
brome: See Bromine.
brome grass: A genus (Bromus) of grasses, one species of which is the chessor cheat.
bromeliaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, a family of endogenous and mostlyepiphytic or saxicolous plants of which the genera Tillandsia andBillbergia are examples. The pineapple, though terrestrial, is alsoof this family.
bromic: Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of thosecompounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, orthe next to its highest; as, bromic acid.
bromide: A compound of bromine with a positive radical.
bromidiom: A conventional comment or saying, such as those characteristicof bromides. [Slang]
brominate: See Bromate, v. t.
bromine: One of the elements, related in its chemical qualities tochlorine and iodine. Atomic weight 79.8. Symbol Br. It is a deepreddish brown liquid of a very disagreeable odor, emitting a brownishvapor at the ordinary temperature. In combination it is found inminute quantities in sea water, and in many saline springs. It occursalso in the mineral bromyrite.
bromism: A diseased condition produced by the excessive use of bromineor one of its compounds. It is characterized by mental dullness andmuscular weakness.
bromize: To prepare or treat with bromine; as, to bromize a silveredplate.
bromlife: A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witheriteand strontianite; -- called also alstonite.
bromoform: A colorless liquid, CHBr3, having an agreeable odor andsweetish taste. It is produced by the simultaneous action of bromineand caustic potash upon wood spirit, alcohol, or acetone, as also bycertain other reactions. In composition it is the same as chloroform,with the substitution of bromine for chlorine. It is somewhat similarto chloroform in its effects. Watts.
bromogelatin: Designating or pertaining to, a process of preparing dry plateswith an emulsion of bromides and silver nitrate in gelatin.
bromoiodism: Poisoning induced by large doses of bromine and iodine or oftheir compounds.
bromoiodized: Treated with bromides and iodides.
bromol: A crystalline substance (chemically, tribromophenol,C6H2Br3OH), used as an antiseptic and disinfectant.
brompicrin: A pungent colorless explosive liquid, CNO2Br3, analogous to andresembling chlorpicrin. [Spelt also brompikrin.]
bromuret: See Bromide. [Obs.]
bromyrite: Silver bromide, a rare mineral; -- called also bromargyrite.
bronchi: See Bronchus.
bronchia: The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of thetrachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi. Dunglison.
bronchial: Belonging to the bronchi and their ramifications in the lungs.Bronchial arteries, branches of the descending aorta, accompanyingthe bronchia in all their ramifications.-- Bronchial cells, the air cells terminating the bronchia.-- Bronchial glands, glands whose functions are unknown, seatedalong the bronchia.-- Bronchial membrane, the mucous membrane lining the bronchia.-- Bronchial tube, the bronchi, or the bronchia.
bronchic: Bronchial.
bronchiole: A minute bronchial tube.
bronchitic: Of or pertaining to bronchitis; as, bronchitic inflammation.
bronchitis: Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the bronchial tubes or anypart of them.
broncho: A native or a Mexican horse of small size. [Western U.S.]
broncho-pneumonia: Inflammation of the bronchi and lungs; catarrhal pneumonia.
bronchocele: See Goiter.
bronchophony: A modification of the voice sounds, by which they areintensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation ofthe chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.
bronchotome: An instrument for cutting into the bronchial tubes.
bronchotomy: An incision into the windpipe or larynx, including theoperations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy.
bronchus: One of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one ofthe two primary divisions.
bronco: Same as Broncho.
brond: A sword. [Obs.]
brontograph: An aërolite. [R.]
brontology: A treatise upon thunder.
brontometer: An instrument for noting or recording phenomena attendant onthunderstorms.
brontosaurus: A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs. A length of sixty feetis believed to have been attained by these reptiles.
brontotherium: A genus of large extinct mammals from the miocene strata ofwestern North America. They were allied to the rhinoceros, but theskull bears a pair of powerful horn cores in front of the orbits, andthe fore feet were four-toed. See Illustration in Appendix.
brontozoum: An extinct animal of large size, known from its three-toedfootprints in Mesozoic sandstone.
bronze steel: A hard tough alloy of tin, copper, and iron, which can be usedfor guns.
bronzewing: An Australian pigeon of the genus Phaps, of several species; --so called from its bronze plumage.
bronzine: A metal so prepared as to have the appearance of bronze.-- a.
bronzist: One who makes, imitates, collects, or deals in, bronzes.
bronzite: A variety of enstatite, often having a bronzelike luster. It isa silicate of magnesia and iron, of the pyroxene family.
bronzy: Like bronze.
brooch: A painting all of one color, as a sepia painting, or an Indiapainting.
brood: Heavy waste in tin and copper ores. To sit on brood, to ponder.[Poetic] Shak.
broody: Inclined to brood. Ray.
brook: A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.The Lord thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks ofwater. Deut. viii. 7.Empires itself, as doth an inland brook Into the main of waters.Shak.
brook mint: See Water mint.
brookite: A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical withrutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in theorthorhombic system.
brooklet: A small brook.
brooklime: A plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, inaxillary racemes. The American species is V. Americana. [Formerlywritten broklempe or broklympe.]
brookside: The bank of a brook.
brookweed: A small white-flowered herb (Samolus Valerandi) found usuallyin wet places; water pimpernel.
broom: A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep withwhen bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe,which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches,mintue leaves, and large yellow flowers.No gypsy cowered o'er fires of furze and broom. Wordsworth.
broom corn: A variety of Sorghum vulgare, having a joined stem, like maize,rising to the height of eight or ten feet, and bearing its seeds on apanicle with long branches, of which brooms are made.
broom rape: A genus (Orobanche) of parasitic plants of Europe and Asia.They are destitute of chlorophyll, have scales instead of leaves, andspiked flowers, and grow attached to the roots of other plants, asfurze, clover, flax, wild carrot, etc. The name is sometimes appliedto other plants related to this genus, as Aphyllon uniflorumand A.Ludovicianum.
broomstaff: A broomstick. [Obs.] Shak.
broomstick: A stick used as a handle of a broom.
broomy: Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resemblingbroom or a broom.If land grow mossy or broomy. Mortimer.
brose: Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp.oatmeal), and stirring it. It is called beef brose, water brose,etc., according to the name of the liquid (beef broth, hot water,etc.) used. [Scot.]
brotel: Brittle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
brotelness: Brittleness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
broth: Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, asbarley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup.I am sure by your unprejudiced discourses that you love broth betterthan soup. Addison.
brothel: A house of lewdness or ill fame; a house frequented byprostitutes; a bawdyhouse.
brotheler: One who frequents brothels.
brothelry: Lewdness; obscenity; a brothel. B. Jonson.
brother: To make a brother of; to call or treat as a brother; to admitto a brotherhood. Sir W. Scott.
brother german: A brother by both the father's and mother's side, incontradistinction to a uterine brother, one by the mother only.Bouvier.
brother-in-law: The brother of one's husband or wife; also, the husband ofone's sister; sometimes, the husband of one's wife's sister.
brotherliness: The state or quality of being brotherly.
brotherly: Of or pertaining to brothers; such as is natural for brothers;becoming to brothers; kind; affectionate; as, brotherly love.
brouded: Braided; broidered. [Obs.]Alle his clothes brouded up and down. Chaucer.
brougham: A light, close carriage, with seats inside for two or four, andthe fore wheels so arranged as to turn short.
brow: To bound to limit; to be at, or form, the edge of. [R.]Tending my flocks hard by i' the hilly crofts That brow this bottomglade. Milton.
browbeat: To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or witharrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert byimpudent or abusive words or looks; to bully; as, to browbeatwitnesses.My grandfather was not a man to be browbeaten. W. Irving.
browbeating: The act of bearing down, abashing, or disconcerting, with sternlooks, suspercilious manners, or confident assertions.The imperious browbeating and scorn of great men. L'Estrange.
browbound: Crowned; having the head encircled as with a diadem. Shak.
browdyng: Embroidery. [Obs.]Of goldsmithrye, of browdying, and of steel. Chaucer.
browed: Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed,stern-browed.
browless: Without shame. L. Addison.
brown: Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red oryellow.Cheeks brown as the oak leaves. Longfellow.Brown Bess, the old regulation flintlock smoothbore musket, withbronzed barrel, formerly used in the British army.-- Brown bread (a) Dark colored bread; esp. a kind made of unboltedwheat flour, sometimes called in the United States Graham bread. "Hewould mouth with a beggar though she smelt brown bread and garlic."Shak. (b) Dark colored bread made of rye meal and Indian meal, or ofwheat and rye or Indian; rye and Indian bread. [U.S.] -- Brown coal,wood coal. See Lignite.-- Brown hematite or Brown iron ore (Min.), the hydrous iron oxide,limonite, which has a brown streak. See Limonite.-- Brown holland. See under Holland.-- Brown paper, dark colored paper, esp. coarse wrapping paper, madeof unbleached materials.-- Brown spar (Min.), a ferruginous variety of dolomite, in partidentical with ankerite.-- Brown stone. See Brownstone.-- Brown stout, a strong kind of proter or malt liquor.-- Brown study, a state of mental abstraction or serious reverie. W.Irving.
brown bill: A bill or halberd of the 16th and 17th centuries. See 4th Bill.Many time, but for a sallet, my brainpan had been cleft with a brownbill. Shak.
brown race: The Malay or Polynesian race; -- loosely so called.
brown thrush: A common American singing bird (Harporhynchus rufus), allied tothe mocking bird; -- also called brown thrasher.
brownback: The dowitcher or red-breasted snipe. See Dowitcher.
brownian: Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about1827) the commonness of the motion described below. Brownianmovement, the peculiar, rapid, vibratory movement exhibited by themicroscopic particles of substances when suspended in water or otherfluids.
brownie: An imaginary good-natured spirit, who was supposed often toperform important services around the house by night, such asthrashing, churning, sweeping. [Scot.]
browning: A smooth coat of brown mortar, usually the second coat, and thepreparation for the finishing coat of plaster.
brownish: Somewhat brown.
brownism: The views or teachings of Robert Brown of the Brownists.Milton.
brownist: A follower of Robert Brown, of England, in the 16th century,who taught that every church is complete and independent in itselfwhen organized, and consists of members meeting in one place, havingfull power to elect and depose its officers.
brownness: The quality or state of being brown.Now like I brown (O lovely brown thy hair); Only in brownness beautydwelleth there. Drayton.
brownstone: A dark variety of sandstone, much used for building purposes.
brownwort: A species of figwort or Scrophularia (S. vernalis), and otherspecies of the same genus, mostly perennials with inconspicuouscoarse flowers.
browny: Brown or, somewhat brown. "Browny locks." Shak.
browpost: A beam that goes across a building.
browse: The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for thefood of cattle and other animals; green food. Spenser.Sheep, goats, and oxen, and the nobler steed, On browse, and corn,and flowery meadows feed. Dryden.
browser: An animal that browses.
browsewood: Srubs and bushes upon which animals browse.
browsing: Browse; also, a place abounding with shrubs where animals maybrowse.Browsings for the deer. Howell.
browspot: A rounded organ between the eyes of the frog; the interoculargland.
bruang: The Malayan sun bear.
brucine: A poweful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated withstrychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos,especially in the Nux vomica. It is less powerful than strychnine.Called also brucia and brucina.
bruckeled: Wet and dirty; begrimed. [Obs. or Dial.] Herrick.
bruh: The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus.
bruin: A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables.
bruise: To fight with the fists; to box.Bruising was considered a fine, manly, old English custom. Thackeray.
bruisewort: A plant supposed to heal bruises, as the true daisy, thesoapwort, and the comfrey.
bruit: An abnormal sound of several kinds, heard on auscultation.
brumaire: The second month of the calendar adopted by the first Frenchrepublic. It began thirty days after the autumnal equinox. SeeVendemiaire.
brumal: Of or pertaining to winter. "The brumal solstice." Sir T.Browne.
brume: Mist; fog; vapors. "The drifting brume." Longfellow.
brummagem: Counterfeit; gaudy but worthless; sham. [Slang] "TheseBrummagem gentry." Lady D. Hardy.
brumous: Foggy; misty.
brun: Same as Brun, a brook. [Scot.]
brunette: A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion.-- a.
brunion: A nectarine.
brunonian: Pertaining to, or invented by, Brown; -- a term applied to asystem of medicine promulgated in the 18th century by John Brown, ofScotland, the fundamental doctrine of which was, that life is a stateof excitation produced by the normal action of external agents uponthe body, and that disease consists in excess or deficiency ofexcitation.
brunswick black: See Japan black.
brunswick green: An oxychloride of copper, used as a green pigment; also, acarbonate of copper similarly employed.
brush: A tuft of hair on the mandibles.
brush turkey: A large, edible, gregarious bird of Australia (TalegallaLathami) of the family Megapodidæ. Also applied to several alliedspecies of New Guinea.
brusher: One who, or that which, brushes.
brushiness: The quality of resembling a brush; brushlike condition;shagginess. Dr. H. More.
brushite: A white or gray crystalline mineral consisting of the acidphosphate of calcium.
brushy: Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough.
brusk: Same as Brusque.
brusque: Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; hluff; as, a brusqueman; a brusque style.
brusqueness: Quality of being brusque; roughness joined with promptness;blutness. Brit. Quar.
brussels: A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kindof lace, etc. Brussels carpet, a kind of carpet made of worsted yarnfixed in a foundation web of strong linen thread. The worsted, whichalone shows on the upper surface in drawn up in loops to form thepattern.-- Brussels ground, a name given to the handmade ground of realBrussels lace. It is very costly because of the extreme fineness ofthe threads.-- Brussels lace, an expensive kind of lace of several varieties,originally made in Brussels; as, Brussels point, Brussels ground,Brussels wire ground.-- Brussels net, an imitation of Brussels ground, made by machinery.-- Brussels point. See Point lace.-- Brussels sprouts (Bot.), a plant of the Cabbage family, whichproduces, in the axils of the upright stem, numerous small greenheads, or "sprouts," each a cabbage in miniature, of one or twoinches in diameter; the thousand-headed cabbage.-- Brussels wire ground, a ground for lace, made of silk, withmeshes partly straight and partly arched.
brustle: A bristle. [Obs. or Prov.] Chaucer.
brut: To browse. [Obs.] Evelyn.
bruta: See Edentata.
brutalism: Brutish quality; brutality.
brutalization: The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized.
brutalize: To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman.
brutally: In a brutal manner; cruelly.
brute: To report; to bruit. [Obs.]
brutely: In a rude or violent manner.
brutify: To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling;to brutalize.Any man not quite brutified and void of sense. Barrow.
bruting: Browsing. [Obs.] Evelyn.
brutish: Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel,gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent.O, let all provocation Take every brutish shape it can devise. LeighHunt.Man may . . . render himself brutish, but it is in vain that he wouldseek to take the rank and density of the brute. I. Taylor.
brutism: The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute;extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity.
bryological: Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies.
bryologist: One versed in bryology.
bryology: That part of botany which relates to mosses.
bryonin: A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony(Bryonia alba and B. dioica). It is a white, or slightly colored,substance, and is emetic and cathartic.
bryony: The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genusBryonia. The root of B. alba (rough or white bryony) and of B. dioicais a strong, irritating cathartic. Black bryony, a plant (Tamuscommunis) so named from its dark glossy leaves and black root; blackbindweed.
bryophyta: See Cryptogamia.
bryozoa: A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which bybudding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.
bryozoan: Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa.-- n.
bryozoum: An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there maybe two or more kinds in a single colony. The zooecia usually have awreath of tentacles around the mouth, and a well developed stomachand intestinal canal; but these parts are lacking in the other zooids(Avicularia, Ooecia, etc.).
buansuah: The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primævus), supposed bysome to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog.
buat: A lantern; also, the moon. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
bub: Strong malt liquor. [Cant] Prior.
bubale: A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desertof Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.
bubaline: Resembling a buffalo. Bubaline antelope (Zoöl.), the bubale.
bubble shell: A marine univalve shell of the genus Bulla and allied genera,belonging to the Tectibranchiata.
bubbler: To cheat; to deceive.She has bubbled him out of his youth. Addison.The great Locke, who was seldom outwitted by false sounds, wasnevertheless bubbled here. Sterne.
bubbling jock: The male wild turkey, the gobbler; -- so called in allusion toits notes.
bubbly: Abounding in bubbles; bubbling. Nash.
bubby: A woman's breast. [Low]
bubo: An inflammation, with enlargement, of a limphatic gland, esp.in the groin, as in syphilis.
bubonic: Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes.
bubonocele: An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which thehernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swellingthere like a bubo.
bubukle: A red pimple. [R.] Shak.
buccal: Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.
buccan: A wooden frame or grid for roasting, smoking, or drying meatover fire.
buccaneer: A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especiallyto the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniardsin America in the 17th and 18th centuries. [Written also bucanier.]
buccaneerish: Like a buccaneer; piratical.
buccinal: Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike.
buccinator: A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowingwind instruments.
buccinoid: Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidæ,a family of marine univalve shells. See Whelk, and Prosobranchiata.
buccinum: A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas.It includes the common whelk (B. undatum).
bucentaur: The state barge of Venice, used by the doge in the ceremony ofespousing the Adriatic.
bucephalus: The celebrated war horse of Alexander the Great.
buceros: A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills.
bucholzite: Same as Fibrolite.
buchu: A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that aredotted with oil dlands; also, the leaves themselves, which are usedin medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several speciesfurnish the leaves.
buck: To break up or pulverize, as ores.
buck bean: A plant (Menyanthes trifoliata) which grows in moist and boggyplaces, having racems of white or reddish flowers and intenselybitter leaves, sometimes used in medicine; marsh trefoil; -- calledalso bog bean.
buck fever: Intense excitement at the sight of deer or other game, such asoften unnerves a novice in hunting. [Colloq.]
buck-basket: A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash. Shak.
buck-eyed: Having bad or speckled eyes. "A buck-eyed horse." James White.
buckboard: A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frameresting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placedtransversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon.
bucker: A horse or mule that bucks.
bucket: One of the receptacles on the rim of a water wheel into whichthe water rushes, causing the wheel to revolve; also, a float of apaddle wheel.
bucket shop: An office or a place where facilities are given for bettingsmall sums on current prices of stocks, petroleum, etc. [Slang, U.S.]
buckety: Paste used by weavers to dress their webs. Buchanan.
buckeye: A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the samegenus (Æsculus) as the horse chestnut. The Ohio buckeye, or Fetidbuckeye, is Æsculus glabra.-- Red buckeye is Æ. Pavia.-- Small buckeye is Æ. paviflora.-- Sweet buckeye, or Yellow buckeye, is Æ. flava.
buckhound: A hound for hunting deer. Master of the buckhounds, an officerin the royal household. [Eng.]
buckie: A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. SeeBuccinum. [Scot.] Deil's buckie, a perverse, refractory youngster.[Slang]
buckish: Dandified; foppish.
buckler: A block of wood or plate of iron made to fit a hawse hole, orthe circular opening in a half-port, to prevent water from enteringwhen the vessel pitches. Blind buckler (Naut.), a solid buckler.-- Buckler mustard (Bot.), a genus of plants (Biscutella) with smallbright yellow flowers. The seed vessel on bursting resembles twobucklers or shields.-- Buckler thorn, a plant with seed vessels shaped like a buckler.See Christ's thorn.-- Riding buckler (Naut.), a buckler with a hole for the passage ofa cable.
buckler-headed: Having a head like a buckler.
buckling: Wavy; curling, as hair. Latham.
buckra: A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast,West Indies, etc.
buckram: A plant. See Ramson. Dr. Prior.
buckshot: A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in huntingdeer and large game.
buckskin: Breeches made of buckskin.I have alluded to his buckskin. Thackeray.
buckstall: A toil or net to take deer.
buckthorn: A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees. The shorter branches ofsome species terminate in long spines or thorns. See Rhamnus. Seabuckthorn, a plant of the genus Hippophaë.
bucktooth: Any tooth that juts out.When he laughed, two white buckteeth protruded. Thackeray.
buckwheat: A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, theseed of which is used for food.
bucolic: Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd;pastoral; rustic.
bucolical: Bucolic.
bucranium: A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned withwreaths, etc.
bud: A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant,containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; anundeveloped branch or flower.
buddha: The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, andwisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. GautamaSiddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism.
buddhism: The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by theHindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, "the awakened orenlightened," in the sixth century b.c., and adopted as a religion bythe greater part of the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Asia andthe Indian Islands. Buddha's teaching is believed to have beenatheistic; yet it was characterized by elevated humanity andmorality. It presents release from existence (a beatificenfranchisement, Nirvâna) as the greatest good. Buddhists believe intransmigration of souls through all phases and forms of life. Theirnumber was estimated in 1881 at 470,000,000.
buddhist: One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism.
buddhistic: Same as Buddhist, a.
budding: A process of asexual reproduction, in which a new organism orcell is formed by a protrusion of a portion of the animal orvegetable organism, the bud thus formed sometimes remaining attachedto the parent stalk or cell, at other times becoming free; gemmation.See Hydroidea.
buddle: An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in whichstamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynningwater so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions.
bude burner: A burner consisting of two or more concentric Argand burners(the inner rising above the outer) and a central tube by which oxygengas or common air is supplied.
bude light: A light in which high illuminating power is obtained byintroducing a jet of oxygen gas or of common air into the center of aflame fed with coal gas or with oil.
budge: To move off; to stir; to walk away.I'll not budge an inch, boy. Shak.The mouse ne'er shunned the cat as they did budge From rascals worsethan they. Shak.
budgeness: Sternness; severity. [Obs.]A Sara for goodness, a great Bellona for budgeness. Stanyhurst.
budger: One who budges. Shak.
budgerow: A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggishboat, used for journeys on the Ganges.
budgy: Consisting of fur. [Obs.]
budlet: A little bud springing from a parent bud.We have a criterion to distinguish one bud from another, or theparent bud from the numerous budlets which are its offspring. E.Darwin.
buff: The grayish viscid substance constituting the buffy coat. SeeBuffy coat, under Buffy, a.
buffa: The comic actress in an opera.-- a.
buffalo: A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originallyfrom India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of theeastern continent. It is larger and less docile than the common ox,and is fond of marshy places and rivers.
buffel duck: A small duck (Charitonetta albeola); the spirit duck, orbutterball. The head of the male is covered with numerous elongatedfeathers, and thus appears large. Called also bufflehead.
bufferhead: The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, inrailroad carriages.
buffet: To deaden the sound of (bells) by muffling the clapper.
buffeter: One who buffets; a boxer. Jonson.
buffin: A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns. [Obs.]
buffing apparatus: See Buffer, 1.
buffle: The buffalo. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
buffle-headed: Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering.[Obs.]So fell this buffle-headed giant. Gayton.
bufflehead: The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.
buffo: The comic actor in an opera.
buffoon: A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks,antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; amerry-andrew.
buffoonery: The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculouspranks, vulgar tricks and postures.Nor that it will ever constitute a wit to conclude a tart piece ofbuffoonery with a "What makes you blush" Spectator.
buffoonish: Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures. Blair.
buffoonism: The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery.
buffoonly: Low; vulgar. [R.]Apish tricks and buffoonly discourse. Goodman.
buffy: Resembling, or characterized by, buff. Buffy coat, thecoagulated plasma of blood when the red corpuscles have so settledout that the coagulum appears nearly colorless. This is common indiseased conditions where the corpuscles run together more rapidlyand in denser masses than usual. Huxley.
bufo: A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.
bufonite: An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth andpalatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thickteeth), whose remains occur in the oölite and chalk formations;toadstone; -- so named from a notion that it was originally formed inthe head of a toad.
bug: A general name applied to various insects belonging to theHemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.
bugbane: A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceæ andgenus Cimiciguga; bugwort. There are several species.
bugbear: Same as Bugaboo.-- a.
bugfish: The menhaden. [U.S.]
buggery: Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.
bugginess: The state of being infested with bugs.
buggy: Infested or abounding with bugs.
bugle: A sort of wild ox; a buffalo. E. Phillips.
bugled: Ornamented with bugles.
bugler: One who plays on a bugle.
bugleweed: A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L.Virginicus, which has mild narcotic and astringent properties, and issometimes used as a remedy for hemorrhage.
bugloss: A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A.officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue. Small wild bugloss,the Asperugo procumbens and the Lycopsis arvensis.-- Viper's bugloss, a species of Echium.
bugwort: Bugbane.
buhlbuhl: See Bulbul.
buhrstone: A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones. [Written alsoburrstone.]
build: Form or mode of construction; general figure; make; as, thebuild of a ship.
builder: One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as acarpenter, a shipwright, or a mason.In the practice of civil architecture, the builder comes between thearchitect who designs the work and the artisans who execute it. Eng.Cyc.
built: Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship.[Obs.] Dryden.
buke muslin: See Book muslin.
bukshish: See Backsheesh.
bulau: An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii),somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog.
bulb: A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or belowthe ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of acluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, astem above, and roots below, as in the onion, tulip, etc. It differsfrom a corm in not being solid.
bulbaceous: Bulbous. Jonson.
bulbar: Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertainingto the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbarparalysis.
bulbed: Having a bulb; round-headed.
bulbel: A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.
bulbiferous: Producing bulbs.
bulbil: A small or secondary bulb; hence, now almost exclusively
bulblet: A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on someaërial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily,or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion.
bulbo-tuber: A corm.
bulbose: Bulbous.
bulbous: Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs;bulblike in shape or structure.
bulbul: The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus). The name is alsoapplied to several other Asiatic singing birds, of the familyTimaliidæ. The green bulbuls belong to the Chloropsis and alliedgenera. [Written also buhlbuhl.]
bulbule: A small bulb; a bulblet.
bulchin: A little bull.
bulge: The bilge of a vessel. See Bilge, 2. Bulge ways. (Naut.) SeeBilge ways.
bulger: A driver or a brassy with a convex face.
bulgy: Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward.[Colloq.]
bulimus: A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, oftenof large size. The species are numerous ingabundant in tropicalAmerica.
bulk: The cargo of a vessel when stowed.
bulker: A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, inorder to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them.
bulkhead: A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the samedeck.
bulkiness: Greatness in bulk; size.
bulky: Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick;massive; as, bulky volumes.A bulky digest of the revenue laws. Hawthorne.
bull: The male of any species of cattle (Bovidæ); hence, the male ofany large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.
bull brier: A species of Smilax (S. Pseudo-China) growing from New Jerseyto the Gulf of Mexico, which has very large tuberous and farinaceousrootstocks, formerly used by the Indians for a sort of bread, and bythe negroes as an ingredient in making beer; -- called also bamboobrier and China brier.
bull terrier: A breed of dogs obtained by crossing the bulldog and theterrier.
bull-necked: Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull. Sir W.Scott.
bull-roarer: A contrivance consisting of a slat of wood tied to the end of athong or string, with which the slat is whirled so as to cause anintermittent roaring noise. It is used as a toy, and among some racesin certain religious rites.
bulla: A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing atransparent watery fluid.
bullantic: Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls. Fry. Bullantic letters,Gothic letters used in papal bulls.
bullary: A collection of papal bulls.
bullate: Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered. Bullate leaf(Bot.), a leaf, the membranous part of which rises between the veinspuckered elevations convex on one side and concave on the other.
bullbeggar: Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in childrenor persons of weak mind; a bugbear.And being an ill-looked fellow, he has a pension from the churchwardens for being bullbeggar to all the forward children in theparish. Mountfort (1691).
bullcomber: A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhæus vulgaris of Europe.
bulldog: A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacityof grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed inbaiting bulls.
bulldoze: To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation orviolence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, inLouisiana. [Slang, U.S.]
bulldozer: One who bulldozes. [Slang]
bulled: Swollen. [Obs.]
bullen-bullen: The lyre bird.
bullen-nail: A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered.
bullet-proof: Capable of resisting the force of a bullet. Bullet tree. SeeBully tree.-- Bullet wood, the wood of the bullet tree.
bullfaced: Having a large face.
bullfeast: See Bullfight. [Obs.]
bullfinch: A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera,especially the P. vulgaris or rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied tothe grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.
bullfrog: A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in NorthAmerica; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring.
bullhead: A small black water insect. E. Phillips. Bullhead whiting(Zoöl.), the kingfish of Florida (Menticirrus alburnus).
bullheaded: Having a head like that of a bull. Fig.
bullionist: An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency alwaysconvertible into gold.
bullirag: To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger.[Low]
bullish: Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder.Let me inform you, a toothless satire is as improper as a toothedsleek stone, and as bullish. Milton.
bullist: A writer or drawer up of papal bulls. [R.] Harmar.
bullition: The action of boiling; boiling. [Obs.] See Ebullition. Bacon.
bullock: To bully. [Obs.]She shan't think to bullock and domineer over me. Foote.
bullon: A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).
bullpout: See Bullhead, 1 (b).
bullweed: Knapweed. Prior.
bullwort: See Bishop's-weed.
bully: To intimidate with threats and by an overbearing, swaggeringdemeanor; to act the part of a bully toward.For the last fortnight there have been prodigious shoals ofvolunteers gone over to bully the French, upon hearing the peace wasjust signing. Tatler.
bully tree: The name of several West Indian trees of the order Sapotaceæ,as Dipholis nigra and species of Sapota and Mimusops. Most of themyield a substance closely resembling gutta-percha.
bullyrag: Same as Bullirag.
bullyrock: A bully. [Slang Obs.] Shak.
bulrush: A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.
bulse: A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc.[India] Macaulay.
bultel: A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran. [Obs.]
bulti: Same as Bolty.
bultong: Biltong.
bultow: A trawl; a boulter; the mod
bulwark: A rampart; a fortification; a bastion or outwork.
bum: The buttock. [Low] Shak.
bumbailiff: See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.
bumbard: See Bombard. [Obs.]
bumbarge: See Bumboat. Carlyle.
bumbast: See Bombast. [Obs.]
bumbelo: A glass used in subliming camphor. [Spelled also bombolo andbumbolo.]
bumble: The bittern. [Local, Eng.]
bumblebee: A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; --so named from its sound.
bumblepuppy: The old game of nineholes.
bumboat: A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., forsale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.
bumkin: A projecting beam or boom; as
bummalo: A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as arelish; -- called also Bombay duck.
bummer: An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means ofsupport; a dissipated sponger. [Slang, U.S.]
bummery: See Bottomery. [Obs.]There was a scivener of Wapping brought to hearing for relief againsta bummery bond. R. North.
bump: To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; tothump; as, to bump the head against a wall.
bumpkin: An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout."Bashful country bumpkins." W. Irving.
bumptious: Self-conceited; forward; pushing. [Colloq.] Halliwell.
bumptiousness: Conceitedness. [Colloq.]
bunch: A small isolated mass of ore, as distinguished from acontinuous vein. Page.
bunch grass: A grass growing in bunches and affording pasture. InCalifornia, Atropis tenuifolia, Festuca scabrella, and several kindsof Stipa are favorite bunch grasses. In Utah, Eriocoma cuspidata is agood bunch grass.
bunch-backed: Having a bunch on the back; crooked. "Bunch-backed toad." Shak.
bunchberry: The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a densecluster of bright red, edible berries.
bunchiness: The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness.
bunchy: Yielding irregularly; sometimes rich, sometimes poor; as, abunchy mine. Page.
bund: League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.
bunder: A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing ofpassengers and goods.
bundes-versammlung: See Legislature, Switzerland.
bundesrath: The federal council of the German Empire. In the Bundesrath andthe Reichstag are vested the legislative functions. The federalcouncil of Switzerland is also so called.
bundle: A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope,into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loosepackage; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of oldclothes.The fable of the rods, which, when united in a bundle, no strengthcould bend. Goldsmith.Bundle pillar (Arch.), a column or pier, with others of smalldimensions attached to it. Weale.
bundobust: System; discipline. [India]
bung: To stop, as the orifice in the bilge of a cask, with a bung; toclose; -- with up. To bung up, to use up, as by bruising or overexertion; to exhaust or incapacitate for action. [Low]He had bunged up his mouth that he should not have spoken these threeyears. Shelton (Trans. Don Quixote).
bungalow: A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story,usually surrounded by a veranda. [India]
bungarum: A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to thecobras, but without a hood.
bunghole: See Bung, n., 2. Shak.
bungle: To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.
bungler: A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles.If to be a dunce or a bungler in any profession be shameful, how muchmore ignominious and infamous to a scholar to be such! Barrow.
bungling: Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman. Swift.They make but bungling work. Dryden.
bunglingly: Clumsily; awkwardly.
bungo: A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kindof boat used in the Southern United States. Bartlett.
bunion: Same as Bunyon.
bunk: To go to bed in a bunk; -- sometimes with in. [Colloq. U.S.]Bartlett.
bunko: A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by asham lottery. [Written also bunco.] Bunko steerer, a person employedas a decoy in bunko. [Slang, U.S.]
bunkum: See Buncombe.
bunn: See Bun.
bunnian: See Bunyon.
bunny: A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it orgoing out from it.
bunsen cell: A zinc-carbon cell in which the zinc (amalgamated) issurrounded by dilute sulphuric acid, and the carbon by nitric acid ora chromic acid mixture, the two plates being separated by a porouscup.
bunt: A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals,filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand.
bunter: A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgarwoman. [Cant]Her . . . daughters, like bunters in stuff gowns. Goldsmith.
bunting: A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related tothe finches and sparrows (family Fringillidæ).
buntline: One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used tohaul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in. Totten.
buoy: A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark achannel or to point out the position of something beneath the water,as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. Anchor buoy, a buoy attached to, ormarking the position of, an anchor.-- Bell buoy, a large buoy on which a bell is mounted, to be rung bythe motion of the waves.-- Breeches buoy. See under Breeches.-- Cable buoy, an empty cask employed to buoy up the cable in rockyanchorage.-- Can buoy, a hollow buoy made of sheet or boiler iron, usuallyconical or pear-shaped.-- Life buoy, a float intended to support persons who have falleninto the water, until a boat can be dispatched to save them.-- Nut or Nun buoy, a buoy large in the middle, and tapering nearlyto a point at each end.-- To stream the buoy, to let the anchor buoy fall by the ship'sside into the water, before letting go the anchor.-- Whistling buoy, a buoy fitted with a whistle that is blown by theaction of the waves.
buoyage: Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for theguidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys.
buoyance: Buoyancy. [R.]
buoyancy: The upward pressure exerted upon a floating body by a fluid,which is equal to the weight of the body; hence, also, the weight ofa floating body, as measured by the volume of fluid displaced.Such are buoyancies or displacements of the different classes of hermajesty's ships. Eng. Cyc.
buprestidan: One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and alliedgenera, usually with brilliant metallic colors. The larvæ are usuallybores in timber, or beneath bark, and are often very destructive totrees.
bur fish: A spinose, plectognath fish of the Allantic coast of the UnitedStates (esp. Chilo mycterus geometricus) having the power ofdistending its body with water or air, so as to resemble a chestnutbur; -- called also ball fish, balloon fish, and swellfish.
bur marigold: See Beggar's ticks.
burbolt: A birdbolt. [Obs.] Ford.
burbot: A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose twovery small barbels, and a larger one on the chin. [Written alsoburbolt.]
burdelais: A sort of grape. Jonson.
burden: The tops or heads of stream-work which lie over the stream oftin.
burdener: One who loads; a oppressor.
burdenous: Burdensome. [Obs.] "Burdenous taxations." Shak.
burdensome: Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue;oppressive.The debt immense of endless gratitude So burdensome. Milton.
burdock: A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burswhich adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool ofanimals.
burdon: A pilgrim's staff. [Written also burden.] Rom. of R.
bureaucrat: An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrowand arbitrary routine. C. Kingsley.
bureaucratist: An advocate for , or supporter of, bureaucracy.
burel: Same as Borrel.
burette: An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid orfor measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged.It consists essentially of a graduated glass tube, usually furnishedwith a small aperture and stopcock.
burgage: A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or otherlord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by servicesrelating to trade or handicraft. Burrill.
burgall: A small marine fish; -- also called cunner.
burgamot: See Bergamot.
burganet: See Burgonet.
burgee: A swallow-tailed flag; a distinguishing pen
burgeois: See 1st Bourgeous.
burgeon: To bud. See Bourgeon.
burgess-ship: The state of privilege of a burgess. South.
burggrave: Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress orcastle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domainattached.
burgh: A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland.See Borough.
burghal: Belonging of a burgh.
burghbote: A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles orwalls for the defense of a city or town.
burghbrech: The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitantof a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace. Burrill.
burgher: A member of that party, among the Scotch seceders, whichasserted the lawfulness of the burgess oath (in which burgessesprofess "the true religion professed within the realm"), the oppositeparty being called antiburghers.
burghermaster: See Burgomaster.
burghership: The state or privileges of a burgher.
burghmaster: An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries forthe workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster. [Eng.]
burghmote: A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court heldthree times yearly.
burglar: One guilty of the crime of burglary. Burglar alarm, a devicefor giving alarm if a door or window is opened from without.
burglarer: A burglar. [Obs.]
burglarious: Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.To come down a chimney is held a burglarious entry. Blackstone.
burglariously: With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar.Blackstone.
burglary: Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in thenighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether thefelonious purpose be accomplished or not. Wharton. Burrill.
burgomaster: An aquatic bird, the glaucous gull (Larus glaucus), common inarctic regions.
burgonet: A kind of helmet. [Written also burganet.] Shak.
burgoo: A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen.[Written also burgout.]
burgrass: Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having bursfor fruit.
burgrave: See Burggrave.
burh: See Burg. [Obs.]
burier: One who, or that which, buries.Till the buriers have buried it. Ezek. xxxix. 15.And darkness be the burier of the dead. Shak.
burinist: One who works with the burin. For. Quart. Rev.
burion: The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacusfrontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch. [Written alsoburrion.]
burkism: The practice of killing persons for the purpose of sellingtheir bodies for dissection.
burl: To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loosethreads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth. Burling iron, a peculiarkind of nippers or tweezers used in burling woolen cloth.
burlap: A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also,a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc. [Writtenalso burlaps.]
burler: One who burls or dresses cloth.
burlesque: Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images,or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it,as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular;ironical.It is a dispute among the critics, whether burlesque poetry runs bestin heroic verse, like that of the Dispensary, or in doggerel, likethat of Hudibras. Addison.
burlesquer: One who burlesques.
burletta: A comic operetta; a music farce. Byron.
burliness: Quality of being burly.
burman: A member of the Burman family, one of the four great familiesBurmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese.-- a.
burmese: Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants.-- n. sing. & pl.
burn: To apply a cautery to; to cauterize.
burnable: Combustible. Cotgrave.
burned: See Burnt.
burnet: A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially,P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet. Burnet moth (Zoöl.), inEngland, a handsome moth (Zygæna filipendula), with crimson spots onthe wings.-- Burnet saxifrage. (Bot.) See Saxifrage.-- Canadian burnet, a marsh plant (Poterium Canadensis).-- Great burnet, Wild burnet, Poterium (or Sanguisorba) oficinalis.
burnettize: To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation ina solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a processinvented by Sir William Burnett.
burnie: A small brook. [Scot.] Burns.
burniebee: The ladybird. [Prov. Eng.]
burning: The act of consuming by fire or heat, or of subjecting to theeffect of fire or heat; the state of being on fire or excessivelyheated. Burning fluid, any volatile illuminating oil, as the lighterpetroleums (naphtha, benzine), or oil of turpentine (camphine), butesp. a mixture of the latter with alcohol.-- Burning glass, a conxex lens of considerable size, used forproducing an intense heat by converging the sun's rays to a focus.-- Burning house (Metal.), the furnace in which tin ores arecalcined, to sublime the sulphur and arsenic from the pyrites. Weale.-- Burning mirror, a concave mirror, or a combination of planemirrors, used for the same purpose as a burning glass.
burnish: To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish;specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth;as, to burnish brass or paper.The frame of burnished steel, that east a glare From far, and seemedto thaw the freezing air. Dryden.Now the village windows blaze, Burnished by the setting sun.Cunningham.Burnishing machine, a machine for smoothing and polishing bycompression, as in making paper collars.
burnstickle: A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).
burnt: Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as withfire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun. Burnt ear, ablack, powdery fungus which destroys grain. See Smut.-- Burnt offering, something offered and burnt on an altar, as anatonement for sin; a sacrifice. The offerings of the Jews were aclean animal, as an ox, a calf, a goat, or a sheep; or some vegetablesubstance, as bread, or ears of wheat or barley. Called also burntsacrifice. [2 Sam. xxiv. 22.]
burr: A guttural pronounciation of the letter r, produced by trillingthe extremity of the soft palate against the back part of the tongue;rotacism; -- often called the Newcastle, Northumberland, orTweedside, burr.
burr millstone: See Buhrstone.
burrel: A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from itssmooth, delicious, soft pulp.
burrel fly: The botfly or gadfly of cattle (Hypoderma bovis). See Gadfly.
burrel shot: A mixture of shot, nails, stones, pieces of old iron, etc.,fired from a cannon at short range, in an emergency. [R.]
burring machine: A machine for cleansing wool of burs, seeds, and othersubstances.
burro: A donkey. [Southern U.S.]
burrock: A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gapswhere fish traps are placed. Knight.
burrow: A heap or heaps of rubbish or refuse.
burrower: One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a holeunder ground and lives in it.
burrstone: See Buhrstone.
burry: Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as,burry wool.
bursa: Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovialsacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposedbetween tendons and bony prominences.
bursal: Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursæ.
bursarship: The office of a bursar.
bursch: A youth; especially, a student in a german university.
burschenschaft: In Germany, any of various associations of university studentsformed (the original one at Jena in 1815) to support liberal ideas,or the organization formed by the affiliation of the local bodies.The organization was suppressed by the government in 1819, but wassecretly revived, and is now openly maintained as a socialorganization, the restrictive laws having been repealed prior to1849. -- Bur"schen*schaft`ler (#), -schaf`ter (#), n.
burse: An ornamental case of hold the corporal when not in use.Shipley.
bursiculate: Bursiform.
bursiform: Shaped like a purse.
bursitis: Inflammation of a bursa.
bursten: p. p. of Burst, v. i. [Obs.]
burster: One that bursts.
burstwort: A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cureof hernia or rupture.
burt: See Birt. [Prov. Eng.]
burthen: See Burden. [Archaic]
burton: A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys,the weight being suspended of a hook block in the bight of therunning part.
bury: The ground or place for burying the dead; burial place.
bus: An omnibus. [Colloq.]
busby: A military headdress or cap, used in the British army. It is offur, with a bag, of the same color as the facings of the regiment,hanging from the top over the right shoulder.
buscon: One who searches for ores; a prospector. [U.S.]
bush: The tail, or brush, of a fox. To beat about the bush, toapproach anything in a round-about manner, instead of coming directlyto it; -- a metaphor taken from hunting.-- Bush bean (Bot.), a variety of bean which is low and requires nosupport (Phaseolus vulgaris, variety nanus). See Bean, 1.-- Bush buck, or Bush goat (Zoöl.), a beautiful South Africanantelope (Tragelaphus sylvaticus); -- so called because found mainlyin wooden localities. The name is also applied to other species.-- Bush cat (Zoöl.), the serval. See Serval.-- Bush chat (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Pratincola, of the Thrushfamily.-- Bush dog. (Zoöl.) See Potto.-- Bush hammer. See Bushhammer in the Vocabulary.-- Bush harrow (Agric.) See under Harrow.-- Bush hog (Zoöl.), a South African wild hog (PotamochoerusAfricanus); -- called also bush pig, and water hog.-- Bush master (Zoöl.), a venomous snake (Lachesis mutus) of Guinea;-- called also surucucu.-- Bush pea (Bot.), a variety of pea that needs to be bushed.-- Bush shrike (Zoöl.), a bird of the genus Thamnophilus, and alliedgenera; -- called also batarg. Many species inhabit tropical America.-- Bush tit (Zoöl.), a small bird of the genus Psaltriparus, alliedto the titmouse. P. minimus inhabits California.
bushboy: See Bushman.
bushelage: A duty payable on commodities by the bushel. [Eng.]
bushelman: A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called alsobusheler. [Local, U.S.]
bushet: A small bush.
bushfighter: One accustomed to bushfighting. Parkman.
bushfighting: Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, orthickets.
bushhammer: A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, withpyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cutinto a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.
bushido: The unwritten code of moral principles regulating the actionsof the Japanese knighthood, or Samurai; the chivalry of Japan.
bushiness: The condition or quality of being bushy.
bushing: A bush or lining; -- sometimes called . See 4th Bush.
bushless: Free from bushes; bare.O'er the long backs of the bushless downs. Tennyson.
bushman: One of a race of South African nomads, living principally inthe deserts, and not classified as allied in race or language to anyother people.
bushranger: One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, inAustralia, an escaped criminal living in the bush.
busily: In a busy manner.
business: The position, distribution, and order of persons and propertieson the stage of a theater, as determined by the stage manager inrehearsal.
businesslike: In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by rightmethods.
busk: A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or othermaterial, worn in the front of a corset.Her long slit sleeves, stiff busk, puff verdingall, Is all that makesher thus angelical. Marston.
busked: Wearing a busk. Pollok.
busky: See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n. Shak.
buss: A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack. Shak.
bustard: A bird of the genus Otis.
buster: Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree. [Slang,U.S.] Bartlett.
bustle: To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to causeagitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd.And leave the world for me to bustle in. Shak.
bustler: An active, stirring person.
bustling: Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confusedactivity; as, a bustling crowd. "A bustling wharf." Hawthorne.
busto: A bust; a statue.With some antick bustoes in the niches. Ashmole.
busy: To make or keep busy; to employ; to engage or keep engaged; tooccupy; as, to busy one's self with books.Be it thy course to busy giddy minds With foreign quarrels. Shak.
busybody: One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs ofothers; a meddling person.And not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking thingswhich they ought not. 1 Tim. v. 13.
but: The outer apartment or kitchen of a two-roomed house; --opposed to ben, the inner room. [Scot.]
but-thorn: The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).
butane: An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, orparaffin, series.
butcherliness: Butchery quality.
butcherly: Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman;fell. "The victim of a butcherly murder." D. Webster.What stratagems, how fell, how butcherly, This deadly quarrel dailydoth beget! Shak.
butler: An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whoseprincipal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.;the head servant in a large house.The butler and the baker of the king of Egypt. Gen. xl. 5.Your wine locked up, your butler strolled abroad. Pope.
butlerage: A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported intoEngland by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to theking's butler for the king. Blackstone.
butlership: The office of a butler.
butment: A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joinsit to the upright pier.
butt: To strike by thrusting the head against; to strike with thehead.Two harmless lambs are butting one the other. Sir H. Wotton.
butt hinge: See 1st Butt, 10.
butt joint: A joint in which the edges or ends of the pieces united comesquarely together instead of overlapping. See 1st Butt, 8.
butt shaft: An arrow without a barb, for shooting at butts; an arrow. [Alsobut shaft.] Shak.
butt weld: See Butt weld, under Butt.
butte: A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from thegeneral level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiarelevations in the Rocky Mountain region.The creek . . . passes by two remarkable buttes of red conglomerate.Ruxton.
butter: One who, or that which, butts.
butter-fingered: Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery;careless.
butter-scotch: A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter. [Colloq.]Dickens.
butterball: The buffel duck.
butterbird: The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island ofJamaica.
butterbump: The European bittern. Johnson.
butterbur: A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Compositefamily, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats ofbutter.
buttercup: A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R.bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower,golden cup, and kingcup. It is the cuckoobud of Shakespeare.
butterfish: A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to theirslippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of theAtlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, therock eel, and the kelpfish of New Zealand.
butterfly: A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.
butterine: A substance prepared from animal fat with some otheringredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.The manufacturers ship large quantities of oleomargarine to England,Holland, and other countries, to be manufactured into butter, whichis sold as butterine or suine. Johnson's Cyc.
butteris: A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in ahandle which rests against the shoulder of the operator. It isoperated by a thrust movement, and used in paring the hoofs ofhorses.
butterman: A man who makes or sells butter.
buttermilk: The milk that remains after the butter is separated from thecream.
butternut: An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, andits edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter.Sometimes called oil nut and white walnut.
butterweed: An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Seneciolobatus).
butterweight: Over weight. Swift.
butterwort: A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves whichsecrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to whichinsects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects aredigested by the plant. The species are found mostly in the NorthTemperate zone.
buttery: Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter.
butting: An abuttal; a boundary.Without buttings or boundings on any side. Bp. Beveridge.
butting joint: A joint between two pieces of timber or wood, at the end of oneor both, and either at right angles or oblique to the grain, as thejoints which the struts and braces form with the truss posts; --sometimes called abutting joint.
buttock: The convexity of a ship behind, under the stern. Mar. Dict.
button: To be fastened by a button or buttons; as, the coat will notbutton.
buttonball: See Buttonwood.
buttonbush: A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; -- so called from its globular head of flowers. See Capitulum.
buttonhole: The hole or loop in which a button is caught.
buttonmold: A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into abutton by covering it with cloth. [Written also buttonmould.] Fossilbuttonmolds, joints of encrinites. See Encrinite.
buttons: A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on hislivry. [Colloq.] Dickens.
buttonweed: The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia,of the Madder family.
buttonwood: The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a largetree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called alsobuttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore.The California buttonwood is P. racemosa.
buttony: Ornamented with a large number of buttons. "The buttony boy."Thackeray. "My coat so blue and buttony." W. S. Gilbert.
buttress: A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust ofan arch, or for ornament and symmetry.
buttweld: To unite by a butt weld.
butty: One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore.
butyl: A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom ofhydrogen.
butylamine: A colorless liquid base, C4H9NH2, of which there are fourisomeric varieties.
butylene: Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethyleneseries. They are gaseous or easily liquefiable.
butyraceous: Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter.
butyrate: A salt of butyric acid.
butyric: Pertaining to, or derived from, butter. Butyric acid,C3H7.CO2H, an acid found in butter; an oily, limpid fluid, having thesmell of rancid butter, and an acrid taste, with a sweetishaftertaste, like that of ether. There are two metameric butyricacids, called in distinction the normal- and iso-butyric acid. Thenormal butyric acid is the one common in rancid butter.
butyrin: A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity inmilk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor.
butyrometer: An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter orbutter contained in a sample of milk.
butyrone: A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate.
butyrous: Butyraceous.
butyryl: The radical (C4H7O) of butyric acid.
buxeous: Belonging to the box tree.
buxine: An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common boxtree. It is identical with bebeerine; -- called also buxina.
buy: To negotiate or treat about a purchase.I will buy with you, sell with you. Shak.
buyer: One who buys; a purchaser.
buz: See Buzz. [Obs.]
buzz: To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like thatmade by bees with their wings. Hence
buzzard: A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteoand related genera.
buzzardet: A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.
buzzer: One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer.And wants not buzzers to infect his ear With pestilent speeches ofhis father's death. Shak.
buzzingly: In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound.
buzzsaw: A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes whenrunning at full speed.
by: Out of the common path; aside; -- used in composition, givingthe meaning of something aside, secondary, or incidental, orcollateral matter, a thing private or avoiding notice; as, by-line,by-place, by-play, by-street. It was formerly more freely used incomposition than it is now; as, by-business, by-concernment, by-design, by-interest, etc.
by-bidder: One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer orowner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles. [U.S.]
by-corner: A private corner.Britain being a by-corner, out of the road of the world. Fuller.
by-dependence: An appendage; that which depends on something else, or isdistinct from the main dependence; an accessory. Shak.
by-drinking: A drinking between meals. [Obs.]
by-election: An election held by itself, not at the time of a generalelection.
by-end: Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage.[Written also bye-end.]"Profit or some other by-end." L'Estrange.
by-interest: Self-interest; private advantage. Atterbury.
by-lane: A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.
by-name: A nickname. Camden.
by-pass: A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divertcirculation from the usual course.
by-passage: A passage different from the usual one; a byway.
by-past: Past; gone by. "By-past perils." Shak.
by-place: A retired or private place.
by-product: A secondary or additional product; something produced, as inthe course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product.
by-respect: Private end or view; by-interest. [Obs.] Dryden.
by-room: A private room or apartment. "Stand in some by-room" Shak.
by-speech: An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to thepoint. "To quote by-speeches." Hooker.
by-spell: A proverb. [Obs.]
by-street: A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way orcross street.He seeks by-streets, and saves the expensive coach. Gay.
by-stroke: An accidental or a slyly given stroke.
by-turning: An obscure road; a way turning from the main road. Sir P.Sidney.
by-view: A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose.No by-views of his own shall mislead him. Atterbury.
by-walk: secluded or private walk.He moves afterward in by-walks. Dryden.
by-wash: The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert theflow of water.
by-wipe: A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm. Milton.
byard: A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men whodrag sledges in coal mines.
bye: A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye. T. Hughes.By the bye, in passing; by way of digression; apropos to the matterin hand. [Written also by the by.]
bygone: Past; gone by. "Bygone fooleries." Shak
byland: A peninsula. [Obs.]
bylander: See Bilander.[Obs.]
byname: To give a nickname to. Camden.
bypath: A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.God known, my son, By what bypaths, and indirect crooked ways, I metthis crown. Shak.
byplay: Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while themain action proceeds.
byre: A cow house. [N. of Eng.& Scot.]
byroad: A private or obscure road. "Through slippery byroads" Swift.
byronic: Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron.With despair and Byronic misanthropy. Thackeray
bysmottered: Bespotted with mud or dirt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
byss: See Byssus, n., 1.
byssaceous: Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some verydelicate filamentous algæ.
byssiferous: Bearing a byssus or tuft.
byssin: See Byssus, n., 1.
byssine: Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance. Coles.
byssoid: Byssaceous.
byssolite: An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende.
byssus: A tuft of long, tough filaments which are formed in a groove ofthe foot, and issue from between the valves of certain bivalvemollusks, as the Pinna and Mytilus, by which they attach themselvesto rocks, etc.
bystander: One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern withthe business transacting.He addressed the bystanders and scattered pamphlets among them.Palfrey.
byway: A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside fromthe main one. " Take no byways." Herbert.
bywork: Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondarybusiness.
byzantian: See Byzantine.
byzantine: Of or pertaining to Byzantium.-- n.
c: (a) The keynote of the normal or "natural" scale, which hasneither flats nor sharps in its signature; also, the third note ofthe relative minor scale of the same (b) C after the clef is the markof common time, in which each measure is a semibreve (four fourths orcrotchets); for alla breve time it is written (c) The "C clef," amodification of the letter C, placed on any line of the staff, abowsthat line to be middle C.
ca ira: The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.
caaba: The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which allMohammedans must pray. [Written also kaaba.]
caada: A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but lessfrequently, an open valley. [Local, Western U. S.]
caas: Case. [Obs.] Chaucer.
caatinga: A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found inareas of small rainfall in Brazil.
cab: A Hebrew dry measure, containing a little over two (2.37)pints. W. H. Ward. 2 Kings vi. 25.
cabal: To unite in a small party to promote private views andinterests by intrigue; to intrigue; to plot.Caballing still against it with the great. Dryden.
cabalist: One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewishtraditions. "Studious cabalists." Swift.
cabalistically: In a cabalistic manner.
cabalize: To use cabalistic language. [R] Dr. H. More.
caballer: One who cabals.A close caballer and tongue-valiant lord. Dryden.
caballeria: An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight'sfee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a landmeasure of varying size. In Cuba it is about 33 acres; in Porto Rico,about 194 acres; in the Southwestern United States, about 108 acres.
caballero: A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman.
caballine: Of or pertaining to a horse.-- n.
caballo: A horse. [Sp. Amer.]
cabaret: A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed. [Obs. as anEnglish word.]
cabas: A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flatworkbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba. C. Bronté.
cabassou: A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus andX. hispidus); the tatouay. [Written also Kabassou.]
cabbage: To form a head like that the cabbage; as, to make lettucecabbage. Johnson.
cabbler: One who works at cabbling.
cabbling: The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wroughtiron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated andwrought into bar iron.
caber: A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial ofstrength.
cabezon: A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to thesculpin.
cabiai: The capybara. See Capybara.
cabin: To live in, or as in, a cabin; to lodge.I'll make you . . . cabin in a cave. Shak.
cabinet: Suitable for a cabinet; small.He [Varnhagen von Ense] is a walking cabinet edition of Goethe. For.Quar. Rev.
cabinetmaker: One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choicearticles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.
cabinetmaking: The art or occupation of making the finer articles of householdfurniture.
cabinetwork: The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniturerequiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.
cabirean: ,n.One of the Cabiri.
cabiri: Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by thePelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece;-- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of theart of working metals. [Written also Cabeiri.] Liddell & Scott.
cabirian: Same as Cabiric.
cabiric: Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.[Written also Cabiritic.]
cable: A molding, shaft of a column, or any other member of convex,rounded section, made to resemble the spiral twist of a rope; --called also cable molding. Bower cable, the cable belonging to thebower anchor.-- Cable road, a railway on which the cars are moved by acontinuously running endless rope operated by a stationary motor.-- Cable's length, the length of a ship's cable. Cables in themerchant service vary in length from 100 to 140 fathoms or more; butas a maritime measure, a cable's length is either 120 fathoms (720feet), or about 100 fathoms (600 feet, an approximation to one tenthof a nautical mile).-- Cable tier. (a) That part of a vessel where the cables arestowed. (b) A coil of a cable.-- Sheet cable, the cable belonging to the sheet anchor.-- Stream cable, a hawser or rope, smaller than the bower cables, tomoor a ship in a place sheltered from wind and heavy seas.-- Submarine cable. See Telegraph.-- To pay out the cable, To veer out the cable, to slacken it, thatit may run out of the ship; to let more cable run out of the hawsehole.-- To serve the cable, to bind it round with ropes, canvas, etc., toprevent its being, worn or galled in the hawse, et.-- To slip the cable, to let go the end on board and let it all runout and go overboard, as when there is not time to weigh anchor.Hence, in sailor's use, to die.
cabled: Adorned with cabling.
cablegram: A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.
cablelaid: Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twistedtogether to form a cable.
cablet: A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.
cabling: The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilasterwith reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollowsof the fluting. These are limited in length to about one third of theheight of the shaft.
cabman: The driver of a cab.
cabob: To roast, as a cabob. Sir. T. Herbert.
caboched: Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of thehead of a beast in armorial bearing. [Written also caboshed.]
cabochon: A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also,the style of cutting itself. Such stones are said to be cut encabochon.
caboodle: The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usuallyin the phrase the whole caboodle. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.
caboose: A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly calledthe galley.
cabotage: Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.
cabree: The pronghorn antelope. [Also written cabrit, cabret.]
cabrerite: An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt,and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.
cabrilla: A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genusSerranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coastof California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rockbass and kelp salmon.
cabriole: A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.The cabrioles which his charger exhibited. Sir W. Scott.
cabriolet: A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.
cabrit: Same as Cabrée.
caburn: A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seizetackles, etc.
cacaine: The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.
cacajao: A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus)melanocephala). [Written also cacajo.]
cacao: A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America andthe West Indies. Its fruit contains an edible pulp, inclosing seedsabout the size of an almond, from which cocoa, chocolate, and bromaare prepared.
cachalot: The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus). It has in the top ofits head a large cavity, containing an oily fluid, which, afterdeath, concretes into a whitish crystalline substance calledspermaceti. See Sperm whale.
cache: A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing andpreserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry. Kane.
cachepot: An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal,paper, etc.
cachet: A seal, as of a letter. Lettre de cachet Etym
cachinnation: Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hystericalor maniacal affections.Hideous grimaces . . . attended this unusual cachinnation. Sir W.Scott.
cachinnatory: Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.Cachinnatory buzzes of approval. Carlyle.
cachiri: A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of themanioc, and resembling perry. Dunglison.
cacholong: An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also,a similar variety of opal.
cachou: A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of thebreath.
cachucha: An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero.[Sometimes in English spelled cachuca (.]The orchestra plays the cachucha. Logfellow.
cachunde: A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and otheringredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as astomachic and antispasmodic.
cacique: See Cazique.
cack: To ease the body by stool; to go to stool. Pope.
cackerel: The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish consideredpoisonous by the ancients. See Mendole.
cackling: The broken noise of a goose or a hen.
cacodemon: The nightmare. Dunaglison.
cacodoxical: Heretical.
cacodoxy: Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy. [R.]Heterodoxy, or what Luther calls cacodoxy. R. Turnbull.
cacodyl: Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4,spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeableodor. It is the type of a series of compounds analogous to thenitrogen compounds called hydrazines. [Written also cacodyle, andkakodyl.]
cacodylic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl. Cacodylic acid, awhite, crystalline, deliquescent substance, (CH3)2AsO.OH, obtained bythe oxidation of cacodyl, and having the properties of an exceedinglystable acid; -- also called alkargen.
cacoethes: A bad quality or disposition in a disease; an incurable ulcer.
cacogastric: Troubled with bad digestion. [R.] Carlyle.
cacographic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly writtenor spelled.
cacography: Incorrect or bad writing or spelling. Walpole.
cacolet: A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back orpack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainousdistricts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of anarmy.
cacology: Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words. Buchanan.
cacoon: One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entadascandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.
cacophony: An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to theconcurrence of harsh letters or syllables. "Cacophonies of allkinds." Pope.
cacostomia: Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth.
cacotechny: A corruption or corrupt state of art. [R.]
cactaceous: Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which theprickly pear is a common example.
cactus: Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and thenight-blooming cereus. See Cereus. They usually have leafless stemsand branches, often beset with clustered thorns, and are mostlynatives of the warmer parts of America. Cactus wren (Zoöl.), anAmerican wren of the genus Campylorhynchus, of several species.
cacuminal: Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied tocertain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.
cacuminate: To make sharp or pointed. [Obs.]
cadastral: Of or pertaining to landed property. Cadastral survey, orCadastral map, a survey, map, or plan on a large scale (Usuallytopographical map, which exaggerates the dimensions of houses and thebreadth of roads and streams, for the sake of distinctness. Brande &C.
cadaver: A dead human body; a corpse.
cadaveric: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changesproduced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity. Dunglison.Cadaveric alkaloid, an alkaloid generated by the processes ofdecomposition in dead animal bodies, and thought by some to be thecause of the poisonous effects produced by the bodies. See Ptomaine.
cadbait: See Caddice.
caddis: A kind of worsted lace or ribbon. "Caddises, cambrics, lawns."Shak.
caddish: Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.
caddow: A jackdaw. [Prov. Eng.]
caddy: A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.
cade: Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.He brought his cade lamb with him. Sheldon.
cadence: See Cadency.
cadency: Descent of related families; distinction between the members ofa family according to their ages. Marks of cadency (Her.), bearingsindicating the position of the bearer as older or younger son, or asa descendant of an older or younger son. See Difference (Her.).
cadene: A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.McElrath.
cadent: Falling. [R.] "Cadent tears." Shak.
cadenza: A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of apiece, commonly just before the final cadence.
cader: See Cadre.
cadetship: The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get acadetship.
cadge: A circular frame on which cadgers carry hawks for sale.
cadger: One who carries hawks on a cadge.
cadgy: Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also,wanton. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
cadi: An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usuallythe judge of a town or village.
cadilesker: A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originallybecause his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who arenow tried only by their own officers.
cadillac: A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly forcooking. Johnson.
cadis: A kind of coarse serge.
cadmean: Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, whowas said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters ofthe alphabet -- Cadmean letters. Cadmean victory, a victory thatdamages the victors as much as the vanquished; probably referring tothe battle in which the soldiers who sprang from the dragon's teethsown by Cadmus slew each other.
cadmia: An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces wherezinc is sublimed. Formerly applied to the mineral calamine.
cadmian: See Cadmean.
cadmic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmicsulphide.
cadmium: A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring insome zinc ores. It is a white metal, both ductile and malleable.Symbol Cd. Atomic weight 111.8. It was discovered by Stromeyer in1817, who named it from its association with zinc or zinc ore.Cadmium yellow, a compound of cadmium and sulphur, of an intenseyellow color, used as a pigment.
cadrans: An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which theangles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.
cadre: The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to beformed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff. [Written alsocader.]
caducary: Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.
caducean: Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.
caduceus: The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messengerof the gods. It was originally said to be a herald's staff of olivewood, but was afterwards fabled to have two serpents coiled about it,and two wings at the top.
caducibranchiate: With temporary gills
caducity: Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. [R.][A] jumble of youth and caducity. Chesterfield.
caducous: Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, orthe gills of a tadpole.
caduke: Perishable; frail; transitory. [Obs.] Hickes.The caduke pleasures of his world. Bp. Fisher.
cady: See Cadie.
caeca: See Cæcum.
caecias: A wind from the northeast. Milton.
caecilian: A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cæciliæ orOphimorpha. See Ophiomorpha. [Written also coecilian.]
caelatura: Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, asreliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc.
caen stone: A cream-colored limestone for building, found near Caen,France.
caenozoic: See Cenozoic.
caesar: A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar.Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerfulruler. See Kaiser, Kesar.Malborough anticipated the day when he would be servilely flatteredand courted by Cæsar on one side and by Louis the Great on the other.Macaulay.
caesarism: A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercisedby a single person, to whom, as Cæsar or emperor, it has beencommitted by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or supportof such a system of government.
caesious: Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture ofgray. Lindley.
caesium: A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called fromthe two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum. It was the firstelement discovered by spectrum analysis, and is the most stronglybasic and electro-positive substance known. Symbol Cs. Atomic weight132.6.
caespitose: Same as Cespitose.
caesura: A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a footand commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in themiddle of a foot. Also, a long syllable on which the cæsural accentrests, or which is used as a foot.
caesural: Of or pertaining to a cæsura. Cæsural pause, a pause made at acæsura.
cafe: A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel orrestaurant where coffee and liquors are served.
cafeteria: A restaurant or café at which the patrons serve themselves withfood kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat. [U.S.]
caffeic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee. Caffeic acid, an acidobtained from coffee tannin, as a yellow crystalline substance,C9H8O4.
caffeine: A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained fromcoffee. It is identical with the alkaloid theine from tea leaves, andwith guaranine from guarana.
caffetannic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.Caffetannic acid, a variety of tannin obtained from coffee berries,regarded as a glucoside.
caffila: See Cafila.
caffre: See Kaffir.
caftan: A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gownwith sleeves reaching below the hands. It is generally fastened by abelt or sash.
cag: See Keg. [Obs.]
cage: An outer framework of timber, inclosing something within it; asthe cage of a staircase. Gwilt.
caged: Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison. "Thecaged cloister." Shak.
cageling: A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird. [Poetic]Tennyson.
cagit: A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in thePhilippine Islands.
cagmag: A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind. [Prov.Eng.] Halliwell.
cagot: One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs). They aresupposed to be a remnant of the Visigoths.
cahenslyism: A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P. P. Cahensly, a memberof the German parliament, to divide the foreign-born population ofthe United States, for ecclesiastical purposes, according to Europeannationalities, and to appoint bishops and priests of like race andspeaking the same language as the majority of the members of adiocese or congregation. This plan was successfully opposed by theAmerican party in the Church.
cahinca root: The root of an American shrub (Chiococca racemosa), found asfar north as Florida Keys, from which cahincic acid is obtained;also, the root of the South American Chiococca anguifuga, acelebrated antidote for snake poison.
cahincic: Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of aspecies of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincicacid.
cahoot: Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person. [Slang,southwestern U. S.] Bartlett.
caimacam: The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.
caiman: See Cayman.
cainozoic: (Geol.) See Cenozic.
caique: A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, aLevantine vessel of larger size.
caird: A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar. [Prov. Eng.]
cairngormstone: A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, orcrystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, inScotland.
caisson: A sunk panel of ceilings or soffits. Pneumatic caisson(Engin.), a caisson, closed at the top but open at the bottom, andresting upon the ground under water. The pressure of air forced intothe caisson keeps the water out. Men and materials are admitted tothe interior through an air lock. See Lock.
caisson disease: A disease frequently induced by remaining for some time in anatmosphere of high pressure, as in caissons, diving bells, etc. It ischaracterized by neuralgic pains and paralytic symptoms. It isvariously explained, most probably as due to congestion of internalorgans with subsequent stasis of the blood.
caitiff: A captive; a prisoner. [Obs.]Avarice doth tyrannize over her caitiff and slave. Holland.
cajeput: See Cajuput.
cajole: To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.I am not about to cajole or flatter you into a reception of my views.F. W. Robertson.
cajolement: The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.Coleridge.
cajoler: A flatterer; a wheedler.
cajolery: A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery."Infamous cajoleries." Evelyn.
cajun: In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent.
cajuput: A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled fromthe leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It isgreenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.
cajuputene: A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.
cake: To form into a cake, or mass.
caking coal: See Coal.
cal: Wolfram, an ore of tungsten. Simmonds.
calabar: A district on the west coast of Africa. Calabar bean, The of aclimbing legumious plant (Physostigma venenosum), a native oftropical Africa. It is highly poisonous. It is used to producecontraction of the pupil of the eye; also in tetanus, neuralgia, andrheumatic diseases; -- called also ordeal bean, being used by thenegroes in trials for witchcraft.
calabarine: An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it inthe calabar bean.
calaboose: A prison; a jail. [Local, U. S.]
calabozo: A jail. See Calaboose.
calade: A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse ismade to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.
caladium: A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species arecultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiouslyblotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.
calaite: A mineral. See Turquoise.
calamanco: A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked. "a gaycalamanco waistcoat." Tatler.
calamander wood: A valuable furniture wood from India and Ceylon, of a hazel-brown color, with black stripes, very hard in texture. It is aspecies of ebony, and is obtained from the Diospyros qusesita. Calledalso Coromandel wood.
calambac: A fragrant wood; agalloch.
calambour: A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottledcolor, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac;-- used by cabinetmakers.
calamiferous: Producing reeds; reedy.
calamine: A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.
calamint: A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family,esp. the C. Nepela and C. Acinos, which are called also basil thyme.
calamist: One who plays upon a reed or pipe. [Obs.] Blount.
calamistrate: To curl or friz, as the hair. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
calamistration: The act or process of curling the hair. [Obs.] burton.
calamistrum: A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs ofcertain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used to curl certain fibers in theconstruction of their webs.
calamite: A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general formof plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rushfamily) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having thestem more or less woody within. See Acrogen, and Asterophyllite.
calamus: The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family. It furnishes thecommon rattan. See Rattan, and Dragon's blood.
calando: (Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.
calaveras skull: A human skull reported, by Prof. J. D. Whitney, as found in1886 in a Tertiary auriferous gravel deposit, lying below a bed ofblack lava, in Calaveras County, California. It is regarded as verydoubtful whether the skull really belonged to the deposit in which itwas found. If it did, it indicates an unprecedented antiquity forhuman beings of an advanced type.
calaverite: A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; atelluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.
calc-sinter: See under Calcite.
calc-spar: Same as Calcite.
calc-tufa: See under Calcite.
calcaneal: Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.
calcaneum: One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the greatbone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.
calcar: A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for thecalcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit. Ure.
calcareo-argillaceous: consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceousearths.
calcareo-bituminous: Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen. Lyell.
calcareo-siliceous: Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.
calcareous: Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate;consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.Clcareous spar. See as Calcite.
calcareousness: Quality of being calcareous.
calcariferous: Lime-yielding; calciferous
calcarine: Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.
calcavella: A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district ofCarcavelhos. [Written also Calcavellos or Carcavelhos.]
calceated: Fitted with, or wearing, shoes. Johnson.
calced: Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced orbarefooted; as the calced Carmelites.
calcedon: A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.
calceiform: Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper;calceolate.
calceolaria: A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought fromSouth America; slipperwort. It has a yellow or purple flower, oftenspotted or striped, the shape of which suggests its name.
calceolate: Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.
calces: See Calx.
calcic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.
calciferous: Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.Calciferouse epoch (Geol.), and epoch in the American lower Siluriansystem, immediately succeeding the Cambrian period. The name alludesto the peculiar mixture of calcareous and siliceous characteristicsin many of the beds. See the Diagram under Grology.
calcific: Calciferous. Specifically
calcification: The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance bythe deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of boneand teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.
calcified: Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts;calcareous.
calciform: In the form of chalk or lime.
calcify: To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion ofsalts of lime.
calcigenous: Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance onbeing oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.
calcigerous: Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cellsof the teeth.
calcimine: A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering ofa room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zincwhite, and water. [Also spelt kalsomine.]
calciminer: One who calcimines.
calcinable: That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.
calcinate: To calcine. [R.]
calcination: The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or renderingit friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of somevolatile matter, as when carbonic and acid is expelled from carbonateof calcium in the burning of limestone in order to make lime.
calcinatory: A vessel used in calcination.
calcine: To be convereted into a powder or friable substance, or into acalx, by the action of heat. "Calcining without fusion" Newton.
calciner: One who, or that which, calcines.
calcispongiae: An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. SeePorifera.
calcite: Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime. It is rhombohedral inits crystallization, and thus distinguished from aragonite. Itincludes common limestone, chalk, and marble. Called also calc-sparand calcareous spar.
calcitrant: Kicking. Hence
calcitrate: To kick.
calcitration: Act of kicking.
calcium: An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygenforms lime. It is of a pale yellow color, tenacious, and malleable.It is a member of the alkaline earth group of elements. Atomic weight40. Symbol Ca.
calcivorous: Eroding, or eating into, limestone.
calcographer: One who practices calcography.
calcography: The art of drawing with chalk.
calculable: That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.
calculary: Of or pertaining to calculi.
calculate: To make a calculation; to forecast caonsequences; to estimate;to compute.The strong passions, whether good or bad, never calculate. F. W.Robertson.
calculating: The act or process of making mathematical computations or ofestimating results.
calculative: Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.Long habits of calculative dealings. Burke.
calculator: One who computes or reckons
calculatory: Belonging to calculation. Sherwood.
calcule: Reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Howell.
calculi: See Calculus.
calculus: Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but mostfrequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passagesconnected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.
caldron: A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron. [Writtenalso cauldron.] "Caldrons of boiling oil." Prescott.
caleche: See Calash.
caledonia: The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.
caledonian: Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch.-- n.
caledonite: A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts ofCaledonia or Scotland.
calefacient: Making warm; heating. [R.]
calefactive: See Calefactory. [R.]
calefactor: A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.
calefactory: Making hot; producing or communicating heat.
calefy: To make warm or hot.
calembour: A pun.
calendar: A tabular statement of the dates of feasts, offices, saints'days, etc., esp. of those which are liable to change yearly accordingto the varying date of Easter.
calendarial: Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.
calendary: Calendarial. [Obs.]
calender: To press between rollers for the purpose of making smooth andglossy, or wavy, as woolen and silk stuffs, linens, paper, etc. Ure.
calendographer: One who makes calendars. [R.]
calendrer: A person who calenders cloth; a calender.
calends: The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.[Written also kalends.] The Greek calends, a time that will nevercome, as the Greeks had no calends.
calendula: A genus of composite herbaceous plants. One species, Calendulaofficinalis, is the common marigold, and was supposed to blossom onthe calends of every month, whence the name.
calendulin: A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from themarigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.
calenture: A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics;esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, amongsailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the seato be a green field, and to throw himself into it.
calescence: Growing warmth; increasing heat.
calf: The fleshy hinder part of the leg below the knee. Calf's-footjelly, jelly made from the feet of calves. The gelatinous matter ofthe feet is extracted by boiling, and is flavored with sugar,essences, etc.
calfskin: The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.
cali: The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu. [Writtenalso Kali.]
calibrate: To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also,more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of thevarious standards or graduated instruments.
calibration: The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of athermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees;also, more generally, the determination of the true value of thespaces in any graduated instrument.
calice: See Chalice.
calico: Made of, or having the apperance of, calico; -- often appliedto an animal, as a horse or cat, on whose body are large patches of acolor strikingly different from its main color. [Colloq. U. S.]
calicoback: Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used forcalycular, calyculate.
calid: Hot; burning; ardent. [Obs.] Bailey.
calidity: Heat. [Obs.]
caliduct: A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.Subterranean caliducts have been introduced. Evelyn.
california jack: A game at cards, a modification of seven-up, or all fours.
californian: Of or pertaining to California.-- n.
caligation: Dimness; cloudiness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
caliginosity: Darkness. [R.] G. Eliot.
caliginous: Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure. [R.] Blount.The caliginous regions of the air. Hallywell.-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ly, adv.-- Ca*lig"i*nous*ness, n.
caligo: Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on thecornea; also, the speck itself.
caligraphic: See Calligraphic.
caligraphy: See Caligraphy.
calin: An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make teacanisters.
calipash: A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell. Itcontains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a dull greenish tinge,much esteemed as a delicacy in preparations of turtle.
calipee: A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell. Itcontains a fatty and gelatinous substance of a light yellowish color,much esteemed as a delicacy. Thackeray.
calipers: An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers orcompasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thicknessof bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts,shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms, tubes, etc.; -- called alsocaliper compasses, or caliber compasses. Caliper square, adraughtsman's or mechanic's square, having a graduated bar andadjustable jaw or jaws. Knight.-- Vernier calipers. See Vernier.
caliph: Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammedboth as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans ofTurkey, [Writting also calif.]
caliphate: The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of thecaliphs.
calippic: Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer. Calippicperiod, a period of seventy-six years, proposed by Calippus, as animprovement on the Metonic cycle, since the 6940 days of the Metoniccycle exceeded 19 years by about a quarter of a day, and exceeded 235lunations by something more.
calisaya bark: A valuable kind of Peruvian bark obtained from the CinchonaCalisaya, and other closely related species.
calistheneum: A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women andchildren.
calisthenic: Of or pertaining to calisthenics.
calisthenics: The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the bodyand limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.
caliver: An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originallya gun having a regular size of bore. [Obs.] Shak.
calix: A cup. See Calyx.
calk: To copy, as a drawing, by rubbing the back of it with red orblack chalk, and then passing a blunt style or needle over the lines,so as to leave a tracing on the paper or other thing against which itis laid or held. [Writting also calque]
calkin: A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.
calking: The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or offurnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing. Calkingiron, a tool like a chisel, used in calking ships, tightening seamsin ironwork, etc.Their left hand does the calking iron guide. Dryden.
call: An invitation to take charge of or serve a church as itspastor.
calla: A genus of plants, of the order Araceæ.
callat: Same as Callet. [Obs.]A callat of boundless tongue. Shak.
calle: A kind of head covering; a caul. [Obs.] Chaucer.
caller: One who calls.
callet: A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip. [Obs.] [Written alsocallat.]
callid: Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty. [R.]
callidity: Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness. [R.]Her eagly-eyed callidity. C. Smart.
calligrapher: One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.
calligraphist: A calligrapher
calligraphy: Fair or elegant penmanship.
calliope: The Muse that presides over eloquence and heroic poetry; motherof Orpheus, and chief of the nine Muses.
calliopsis: A popular name given to a few species of the genus Careopsis,especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.
callipash: See Calipash.
callipee: See Calipee.
callipers: See Calipers.
callisection: Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection. B. G. Wilder.
callithump: A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tinhorus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; acharivari. [U. S.]
callithumpian: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump. [U. S.]
callosan: Of the callosum.
callose: Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.
callosity: A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening andthickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result ofcontinued pressure or friction.
callosum: The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebralhemispheres. See corpus callosum, under Carpus.
callot: A plant coif or skullcap. Same as Calotte. B. Jonson.
callow: A kind of duck. See Old squaw.
callus: The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exudedat the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous inconsistence, but is ultimately converted into true bone and unitesthe fragments into a single piece.
calm: Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation orabeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds orwaves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity.The wind ceased, and there was a great calm. Mark. iv. 39.A calm before a storm is commonly a peace of a man's own making.South.
calmer: One who, or that which, makes calm.
calmly: In a calm manner.The gentle stream which calmly flows. Denham.
calmness: The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity;self-repose.The gentle calmness of the flood. Denham.Hes calmness was the repose of conscious power. E. Everett.
calmucks: ; sing. Calmuck. A branch of the Mongolian race inbabitingparts of the Russian and Chinese empires; also (sing.), the languageof the Calmucks. [Written also Kalmucks.]
calmy: Tranquil; peaceful; calm. [Poet.] "A still and calmy day"Spenser.
calomel: Mild chloride of mercury, Hg
calorescence: The conversion of obscure radiant heat info kight; thetransmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.Tyndall.
caloric: The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena ofheat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used inscientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term forheat.Caloric expands all bodies. Henry.
caloricity: A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heatnesessary to life, that is, the animal heat.
caloriduct: A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.
calorie: The unit of heat according to the Frensc standard; the amountof heat requires to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes,one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0Foot pound.
calorifacient: See Calorificient.
calorifere: An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially bymeans of hot water circulating in tubes.
calorifiant: See Calorificient.
calorific: Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating. Calorificrays, the invisible, heating rays which emanate from the sum, andburning and heated bodies.
calorification: Production of heat, esp. animal heat.
calorificient: Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- appliedto foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed togive rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.
calorimeter: An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained inbodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, asfriction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.
calorimetric: Of or pertaining to process of using the calorimeter.Satisfactory calorimetric results. Nichol.
calorimetry: Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.
calorimotor: A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, andproducing powerful heating effects.
calorisator: An apparatus used in beet-sugar factories to heat the juice inorder to aid the diffusion.
calotype: A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitizedwith iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor,Mr. Fox. Talbot.
caloyer: A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse ofthe rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt. Athos.
calque: See 2d Calk, v. t.
calumba: The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculuspalmatus), indigenous in Mozambique. It has an unpleasantly bittertaste, and is used as a tonic and antiseptic. [Written also colombo,columbo, and calombo.] American calumba, the Frasera Carolinensis,also called American gentian. Its root has been used in medicine asbitter tonic in place of calumba.
calumbin: A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substancefrom the calumba root. [Written also colombin, and columbin]
calumet: A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smokingtobacco. The bowl is usually made of soft red stone, and the tube isa long reed often ornamented with feathers.Smoked the calumet, the Peace pipe, As a signal to the nations.Lowgfellow.
calumniate: To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or ofsomething disreputable; to slander; to libel.Hatred unto the truth did always falsely report and calumniate allgodly men's doings. Strype.Syn.-- To asperse; slander; defame; vilify; traduce; belie; bespatter;blacken; libel. See Asperse.
calumniation: False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and falserepresentation of the words or actions of another, with a view toinjure his good name.The calumniation of her principal counselors. Bacon.
calumniator: One who calumniates.
calumniatory: Containing calumny; slanderous. Montagu.
calumnious: Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injuriousto reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.Virtue itself 'scapes not calumnious strokes. Shak.
calumny: False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made orreported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation;slander; detraction. "Infamouse calumnies." Motley.Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escapecalumny. Shak.
calvaria: The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of thedomelike upper portion.
calvary: A cross, set upon three steps; -- more properly called crosscalvary.
calver: To bear, or be susceptible of, being calvered; as, grayling'sflesh will calver. Catton.
calvessnout: Snapdragon.
calvinism: The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a Frenchtheologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or ofthe so-called calvinistic churches.
calvinist: A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.
calvinize: To convert to Calvinism.
calvish: Like a calf; stupid. Sheldon.
calx: Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- appliedto a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the Frenchbotanist Candolle.
calyciform: Having the form or appearance of a calyx.
calycle: A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on theoutside.
calycled: Calyculate.
calycozoa: A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type. The bodyis cup-shaped with eight marginal lobes bearing clavate tentacles. Anaboral sucker serves for attachment. The interior is divided intofour large compartments. See Lucernarida.
calycular: Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.
calymene: A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.
calyon: Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell.
calypso: A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flowervariegated with purple, pink, and yellow. It grows in cold and wetlocalities in the northern part of the United States. The Calypsoborealis is the only orchid which reaches 68º N.
calyptra: A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form andposition, covering each of the small flaskike capsules which containthe spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.
calyptriform: Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.
calyx: The covering of a flower. See Flower.
calzoons: Drawers. [Obs.]
cam: Crooked. [Obs.]
camaieu: Painting in shades of one color; monochrome. Mollett.
camail: A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or otherheadpiece.
camaraderie: Comradeship and loyalty.
camarasaurus: A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having largecavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebræ.
camass: A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) ofnorthwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food bythe Indians. [Written also camas, cammas, and quamash.]
camber: An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has ahigh camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).
camberkeeled: Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; --said of a ship.
cambial: Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange. [R.]
cambist: A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills ofexchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.
cambistry: The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.
cambium: A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood properand inside of the inner bark. The growth of new wood takes place inthe cambium, which is very soft.
camblet: See Camlet.
camboge: See Gamboge.
camboose: See Caboose.
cambrasine: A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from itsresemblance to cambric.
cambrel: See Gambrel, n., 2. Wright.
cambria: The ancient Latin name of Wales. It is used by modern poets.
cambrian: Of or pertaining to Cambria or Wales.
cambric: A Welshman.
came: imp. of Come.
camel: A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdensand for riding. The camel is remarkable for its ability to go a longtime without drinking. Its hoofs are small, and situated at theextremities of the toes, and the weight of the animal rests on thecallous. The dromedary (Camelus dromedarius) has one bunch on theback, while the Bactrian camel (C. Bactrianus) has two. The llama,alpaca, and vicuña, of South America, belong to a related genus(Auchenia).
cameleon: See Chaceleon. [Obs.]
camellia: An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves andshowy flowers. Camelia Japonica is much cultivated for ornament, andC. Sassanqua and C. Oleifera are grown in China for the oil which ispressed from their seeds. The tea plant is now referred to this genusunder the name of Camellia Thea.
camelopard: An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.
camelot: See Camelet. [Obs.]
camelry: Troops that are mounted on camels.
camelshair: Of camel's hair. Camel's-hair pencil, a small brush used bypainters in water colors, made of camel's hair or similar materials.-- Camel's-hair shawl. A name often given to a cashmere shawl. SeeCashmere shawl under Cashmere.
cameo: A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewelfor personal adornment, or like.
camera: A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically
camera lucida: An instrument which by means of a prism of a peculiar form, oran arrangement of mirrors, causes an apparent image of an externalobject or objects to appear as if projected upon a plane surface, asof paper or canvas, so that the outlines may conveniently traced. Itis generally used with the microscope.
camera obscura: An apparatus in which the image of an external object orobjects is, by means of lenses. thrown upon a sensitized plate orsurface placed at the back or an extensible darkened box or chambervariously modifled; -- commonly called simply the camera.
camerade: See Comrade, [Obs.]
cameralistic: Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.
cameralistics: The science of finance or public revenue.
cameration: A vaulting or arching over. [R.]
camerlingo: The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over thepope's household. He has at times possessed great power. [Writtenalso camerlengo and camarlengo.]
cameronian: A follower of the Rev. Richard Cameron, a Scotch Covenanter ofthe time of Charies II.Cameron and others refused to accept the "indulgence" offered thePresbyterian clergy, insisted on the Solemn league and Covenant, andin 1680 declared Charles II deposed for tyranny, breach of faith,etc. Cameron was killed at the battle of Airdmoss, but his followersbecame a denomination (afterwards called Reformed Presbyterians) whorefused to recognize laws or institutions which they believedcontrary to the kingdom of Christ, but who now avail themselves ofpolitical rights.
camis: A light, loose dress or robe. [Also written camus.] [Obs.]All in a camis light of purple silk. Spenser.
camisard: One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled againstLouis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so calledfrom the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.
camisated: Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.
camlet: A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly ofgoat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton. [Sometimes writtencamelot and camblet.]
camleted: Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined. Sir T. Herbert.
cammas: See Camass.
cammock: A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; --called also rest-harrow. The Scandix Pecten-Veneris is also calledcammock.
camonflet: A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of anenemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of theminers. Farrow.
camorra: A secret organization formed at Naples, Italy, early in the19th century, and used partly for political ends and partly forpracticing extortion, violence, etc. -- Ca*mor"rist (#), n.
camoused: Depressed; flattened. [Obs.]Though my nose be cammoused. B. Jonson
camously: Awry. [Obs.] Skelton.
camp: A mound of earth in which potatoes and other vegetables arestored for protection against frost; -- called also burrow and pie.[Prov. Eng.]
campagna: An open level tract of country; especially "Campagna di Roma."The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.
campagnol: A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, whichoften does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on rootsand seeds.
campaign: A connected series of military operations forming a distinctstage in a war; the time during which an army keeps the field.Wilhelm.
campaigner: One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an oldsoldier; a veteran.
campana: A church bell.
campaned: Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.
campanero: The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.
campanes: Bells. [R.]
campania: Open country. Sir W. Temple.
campaniform: Bell-shaped.
campanile: A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.Many of the campaniles od Italy are lofty and magnificent atructures.Swift.
campaniliform: Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.
campanologist: One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.
campanology: The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.
campanula: A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often ofgreat beauty; -- also called bellflower.
campanulaceous: Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants(Camponulaceæ) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes theCanterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.
campanularian: A hydroid of the family ampanularidæ, characterized by havingthe polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecæ.
campanulate: Bell-shaped.
campbellite: A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples ofChrist. They themselves repudiate the term Campbellite as a nickname.See Christian, 3.
campeachy wood: Logwood.
camper: One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.
campfight: A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.
camphene: One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor,regarded as modified terpenes.
camphine: Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and asa common solvent in varnishes.
camphire: An old spelling of Camphor.
camphogen: See Cymene.
camphol: See Borneol.
camphor: To impregnate or wash with camphor; to camphorate. [R.] Tatler.
camphoraceous: Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor. Dunglison.
camphorate: To impregnate or treat with camphor.
camphoric: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor. Camphoric acid, awhite crystallizable substance, C10H16O4, obtained from the oxidationof camphor.
camphretic: Pertaining to, or derived from camphor. [R.]
camping: A game of football. [Prov. Eng.]
campion: A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearingberries regarded as poisonous. Bladder campion, a plant of the Pinkfamily (Cucubalus Behen or Silene inflata), having a much inflatedcalyx. See Behen.-- Rose campion, a garden plant (Lychnis coronaria) with handsomecrimsome crimson flowers.
campus: The principal grounds of a college or school, between thebuildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.
campylospermous: Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweetcicely.
campylotropous: Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down uponthemselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.
camus: See Camis. [Obs.]
camwood: See Barwood.
can: an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used inold poetry.
can buoy: See under Buoy, n.
can hook: A device consisting of a short rope with flat hooks at eachend, for hoisting casks or barrels by the ends of the staves.
canaanite: A zealot. "Simon the Canaanite." Matt. x. 4.
canaanitish: Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.
canada: A British province in North America, giving its name to variousplants and animals. Canada balsam. See under Balsam.-- Canada goose. (Zoöl.) See Whisky Jack.-- Canada lynx. (Zoöl.) See Lynx.-- Canada porcupine (Zoöl.) See Porcupine, and Urson.-- Canada rice (Bot.) See under Rick.-- Canada robin (Zoöl.), the cedar bird.
canadian: Of or pertaining to Canada.-- n.
canakin: A little can or cup. "And let me the canakin clink." Shak.
canal: A tube or duct; as, the alimentary canal; the semicircularcanals of the ear. Canal boat, a boat for use on a canal; esp. one ofpeculiar shape, carrying freight, and drawn by horses walking on thetowpath beside the canal. Canal lock. See Lock.
canal coal: See Cannel coal.
canaliculus: A minute canal.
canalization: Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals. [R.]
canape confident: A sofa having a seat at each end at right angles to the mainseats.
canard: An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricatedsensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in thenewspapers to hoax the public.
canarese: Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.
canary bird: To perform the canary dance; to move nimbly; to caper. [Obs.]But to jig of a tune at the tongue's end, canary to it with yourfeet. Shak.Ca*na"ry bird`. (Zoöl.)
canaster: A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves,coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it ispacked in South America. McElrath.
cancan: A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous orextravagant postures and gestures.
cancel: To suppress or omit; to strike out, as matter in type. Canceledfigures (Print), figures cast with a line across the face., as foruse in arithmetics.
cancelier: To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk. [Obs.] Nares.He makes his stoop; but wanting breath, is forced To cancelier.Massinger.
cancellarean: Cancellarean. [R.]
cancellate: Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediateparenchyma, as the leaves of certain plant; latticelike.
cancellated: Open or spongy, as some porous bones.
cancellation: The operation of striking out common factora, in both thedividend and divisor.
cancelli: The interlacing osseous plates constituting the elastic poroustissue of certain parts of the bones, esp. in their articularextremities.
cancellous: Having a spongy or porous stracture; made up of cancelli;cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.
cancer: A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most commonshore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonahcrab, etc. See Crab.
cancerate: To grow into a canser; to become cancerous. Boyle.
canceration: The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into acancer.
cancerite: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;affected with cancer. "Cancerous vices." G. Eliot.-- Can"cer*ous*ly, adv.-- Can"cer*ous*ness, n.
cancerous: Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer;affected with cancer. "cancerous vices" G. Eliot.[1913 Webster]
cancrine: Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.
cancrinite: A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive,generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda,and carbon dioxide.
cancroid: Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of thefamilies of crabs, including the genus Cancer.
cand: Fluor spar. See Kand.
candent: Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat. "A candent vessel."Boyle.
canderos: An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from whichsmall ornaments and toys are sometimes made.
candescence: See Inclandescence.
candescent: Glowing; luminous; incandescent.
candicant: Growing white. [Obs.]
candidacy: The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate;candidateship.
candidate: One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as asuitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office,privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; acandidate for holy orders; a candidate for scholastic honors.
candidateship: Candidacy.
candidating: The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, thepreaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement. [Cant, U. S.]
candidature: Candidacy.
candidly: In a candid manner.
candidness: The quality of being candid.
candify: To make or become white, or candied. [R.]
candiot: Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary.
candite: A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, inCeylon.
candle coal: See Cannel coal.
candle foot: The illumination produced by a British standard candle at adistance of one foot; --used as a unit of illumination.
candle meter: The illumination given by a standard candle at a distance ofone meter; -- used as a unit of illumination, except in GreatBritain.
candle power: Illuminating power, as of a lamp, or gas flame, reckoned interms of the light of a standard candle.
candleberry tree: A shrub (the Myrica cerifera, or wax-bearing myrtle), common inNorth America, the little nuts of which are covered with a greenishwhite wax, which was formerly, used for hardening candles; -- alsocalled bayberry tree, bayberry, or candleberry.
candleholder: One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assistsanother, but is otherwise not of importance. Shak.
candlelight: The light of a candle.Never went by candlelight to bed. Dryden.
candlemas: The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast ofthe Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candlesfor the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.
candlestick: An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle.
candlewaster: One who consumes candles by being up late for study ordissipation.A bookworm, a candlewaster. B. Jonson.
candock: A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of ofEquisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum).
candroy: A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them forprinting.
candy: A more or less solid article of confectionery made by boilingsugar or molasses to the desired consistency, and than crystallizing,molding, or working in the required shape. It is often flavored orcolored, and sometimes contains fruit, nuts, etc.
candytuft: An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens. Thename was originally given to the I. umbellata, first, discovered inthe island of Candia.
canebrake: A thicket of canes. Ellicott.
caned: Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar whencontaining mother. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
canella: A genus of trees of the order Canellaceæ, growing in the WestIndies.
canescent: Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white.
cangue: A very broad and heavy wooden collar which certain offenders inChina are compelled to wear as a punishment.
canicular: Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star.Canicular days, the dog days, See Dog days.-- Canicular year, the Egyptian year, computed from one heliacalrising of the Dog Star to another.
canicule: Canicula. Addison.
caninal: See Canine, a.
canine: Of or pertaining to the pointed tooth on each side theincisors. Canine appetite, a morbidly voracious appetite; bulimia.-- Canine letter, the letter r. See R.-- Canine madness, hydrophobia.-- Canine toth, a toth situated between the incisor and bicuspidteeth, so called because well developen in dogs; usually, the thirdtooth from the front on each side of each jaw; an eyetooth, or thecorresponding tooth in the lower jaw.
canis: A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidæ, includingthe dogs and wolves. Canis major Etym
canister: A kind of case shot for cannon, in which a number of lead oriron balls in layers are inclosed in a case fitting the gun; --called also canister shot,
canker: A disease incident to trees, causing the bark to rot and falloff.
canker bloom: The bloom or blossom of the wild rose or dog-rose.
canker blossom: That which blasts a blossom as a canker does. [Obs.]O me! you juggler! you canker blossom! You thief of Love! Shak.
canker fly: A fly that preys on fruit.
canker rash: A form of scarlet fever characterized by ulcerated or putridsore throat.
canker-bit: Eaten out by canker, or as by canker. [Obs.]
cankeredly: Fretfully; spitefully.
cankerous: Affecting like a canker. "Canrerous shackles." Thomson.Misdeem it not a cankerous change. Wordsworth.
cankerworm: The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are veryinjurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirelydestroying, the foliage. Other similar larvæ are also calledcankerworms.
canna: A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet.See Cane, 4.
cannabene: A colorless oil obtained from hemp dy distillation, andpossessing its intoxicating properties.
cannabin: A pisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, varietyIndica). The narcotic effects of hasheesh are due to this resin.
cannabine: Pertaining to hemp; hempen. [R.]
cannabis: A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceæ;hemp. Cannabis Indica (, the Indian hemp, a powerful narcotic, nowconsidered a variety of the common hemp.
cannel coal: A kind of mineral coal of a black color, sufficiently hard andsolid to be cut and polished. It burns readily, with a clear, yellowflame, and on this account has been used as a substitute for candles.
cannele: A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or flutedeffect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep.
cannelure: A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinderof an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, oraround the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistanceoffered to the rifling. Also, a groove around the base of acartridge, where the extractor takes hold. --Can"ne*lured (#), a.
cannery: A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., iscarried on. [U. S.]
cannibal: A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devoursits own kind. Darwin.
cannibalism: The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence;Murderous cruelty; barbarity. Berke.
cannibally: In the manner of cannibal. "An he had been cannibally given."Shak.
cannikin: A small can or drinking vessel.
cannily: In a canny manner. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]
canniness: Caution; crafty management. [N. of Eng. & Scot.]
cannon: A hollow cylindrical piece carried by a revolving shaft, onwhich it may, however, revolve independently.
cannon bone: See Canon Bone.
cannonade: To attack with heavy artillery; to batter with cannon shot.
cannoned: Furnished with cannon. [Poetic] "Gilbralter's cannoned steep."M. Arnold.
cannonering: The use of cannon. Burke.
cannonry: Cannon, collectively; artillery.The ringing of bells and roaring of cannonry proclaimed his coursethrough the country. W. Irving.
cannot: Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.
cannula: A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for variouspurposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids. It is usuallyassociated with a trocar. [Written also canula.]
cannular: Having the form of a tube; tubular. [Written also canular.]
cannulated: Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length forwire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle. [Written alsocanulated.]
canoe: To manage a canoe, or voyage in a canoe.
canoeing: The act or art of using a canoe.
canoeist: A canoeman.
canoeman: One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.Cabins and clearing greeted the eye of the passing canoeman. Parkman.
canon: A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a counciland confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation,code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.Various canons which were made in councils held in the second centry.Hock.
canon bit: That part of a bit which is put in a horse's mouth.
canon bone: The shank bone, or great bone above the fetlock, in the foreand hind legs of the horse and allied animals, corresponding to themiddle metacarpal or metatarsal bone of most mammals. See Horse.
canoness: A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter. Regularcanoness, one bound by the poverty, and observing a strict rule oflife.-- Secular canoness, one allowed to hold private property, and boundonly by vows of chastity and obedience so long as she chose to remainin the chapter.
canonically: ; according to the canons.
canonicalness: The quality of being canonical; canonicity. Bp. Burnet.
canonicals: The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman whenoficiating. Sometimes, any distinctive professional dress. Fullcanonicals, the complete costume of an officiating clergyman orecclesiastic.
canonicate: The office of a canon; a canonry.
canonicity: The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with thecanon.
canonist: A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge andpractice of ecclesiastical law. South.
canonistic: Of or pertaining to a canonist. "This canonistic exposition."Milton.
canonization: The final process or decree (following beatifacation) by whichthe name of a deceased person is placed in the catalogue (canon) ofsaints and commended to perpetual veneration and invocation.Canonization of saints was not known to the Christian church titltoward the middle of the tenth century. Hoock.
canonize: To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogueof saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.
canonry: A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; aright to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; thedignity or emoluments of a canon.
canonship: Of pertaining to Canopus in egypt; as, the Canopic vases, usedin embalming.
canopus: A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellationArgo.
canopy: To cover with, or as with, a canopy. "A bank with ivycanopied." Milton.
canorous: Melodious; musical. "Birds that are most canorous." Sir T.Browne.A long, lound, and canorous peal of laughter. De Quincey.
canorousness: The quality of being musical.He chooses his language for its rich canorousness. Lowell.
canstick: Candlestick. [Obs.] Shak.
cant: A segment forming a side piece in the head of a cask. Knight.
cant hook: A wooden lever with a movable iron hook. hear the end; -- usedfor canting or turning over heavy logs, etc. [U. S.] Bartlett.
cantab: A Cantabrigian. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.
cantabile: In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposedto bravura, recitativo, or parlando.
cantabrian: Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.
cantabrigian: A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduateof the university of Cambridge, England.
cantalever: A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.
cantaloupe: A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, ayellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color. [Written alsocantaleup.]
cantankerous: Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious. [Colloq.] --Can*tan"ker*ous*ly, adv.-- Can*tan"ker*ous*ness, n.The cantankerous old maiden aunt. Theckeray.
cantata: A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses,solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner;originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of bothrecitative and melody.
cantation: A singing. [Obs.] Blount.
cantatory: Caontaining cant or affectation; whining; singing. [R.]
cantatrice: A female professional singer.
cantel: See Cantle.
canter: To move in a canter.
cantharidal: Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as,cantharidal plaster.
cantharides: See cantharis.
cantharidin: The active principe of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, avolatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.
cantharis: A beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having anelongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseousodor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- alsocalled Spanish fly. Many other species of Lytta, used for the samepurpose, take the same name. See Blister beetle, under Blister. Theplural form in usually applied to the dried insects used in medicine.
canthoplasty: The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has beendestroyed by injury or disease.
canthus: The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each sideof the eye.
canticle: The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of theOld Testament.
canticoy: A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.
cantile: Same as Cantle, v. t.
cantilena: See Cantabile.
cantilever: Same as Cantalever.
cantillate: To chant; to recite with musical tones. M. Stuart.
cantillation: A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.
cantine: See Canteen.
canting: Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical orreligious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; acanting tone. - Cant"ing*ly, adv.-- Cant"ing*ness, n. Canting arms, Canting heraldry (Her.), bearingsin the nature of a rebus alluding to the name of the bearer. Thus,the Castletons bear three castles, and Pope Adrian IV. (NicholasBreakspeare) bore a broken spear.
cantiniere: A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandière.
cantion: A song or verses. [Obs.] Spenser.
cantle: To cut in pieces; to cut out from. [Obs.] [Written alsocantile.]
cantlet: A piece; a fragment; a corner. Dryden.
canto: The highest vocal part; the air or melody in choral music;anciently the tenor, now the soprano. Canto fermo ( Etym
canton: A song or canto [Obs.]Write loyal cantons of contemned love. Shak.
canton crape: A soft, white or colored silk fabric, of a gauzy texture andwavy appearance, used for ladies' scarfs, shawls, bonnet trimmings,etc.; -- called also Oriental crape. De Colange.
canton flannel: See Cotton flannel.
cantonal: Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of acanton.
cantoned: Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a crosson a shield, and also of the shield itself.
cantonize: To divide into cantons or small districts.
cantonment: A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to abody of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest foran army; quarters.
cantoon: A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satinysurface on the other.
cantor: A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.The cantor of the church intones the Te Deum. Milman.
cantoral: Of or belonging to a cantor. Cantoral staff, the official staffor baton of a cantor or precentor, with which time is marked for thesingers.
cantoris: Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir;a cantoris stall. Shipley.
canty: Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry. "The canty dame."Wordsworth [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]Contented with little, and canty with mair. Burns.
canuck: See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.
canvas: Made of, pertaining to, or resembling, canvas or coarse cloth;as, a canvas tent.
canvasback: A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for thedelicacy of its flesh. It visits the United States in autumn;particularly Chesapeake Bay and adjoining waters; -- so named fromthe markings of the plumage on its back.
canvass: To search thoroughly; to engage in solicitation by traversing adistrict; as, to canvass for subscriptions or for votes; to canvassfor a book, a publisher, or in behalf of a charity; -- commonlyfollowed by for.
canvasser: One who canvasses.
cany: Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.Milton.
canyon: The English form of the Spanish word Cañon.
canzonet: A short song, in one or more parts.
caoutchin: An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained bythe destructive distillation of caoutchouc.
caoutchouc: A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milkysap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. theeuphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, andAfrica. Being impermeable to liquids and gases, and not readlyaffected by exposure to air, acids, and alkalies, it is used,especially when vulcanized, for many purposes in the arts and inmanufactures. Also called India rubber (because it was first broughtfrom India, and was formerly used chiefly for erasing pencil marks)and gum elastic. See Vulcanization. Mineral caoutchouc. See underMineral.
caoutchoucin: See Caoutchin.
cap: The whole top of the head of a bird from the base of the billto the nape of the neck.
capableness: The quality or state of being capable; capability;adequateness; competency.
capacify: To quality. [R.]The benefice he is capacified and designed for. Barrow.
capaciously: In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.
capaciousness: The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir abay, the mind, etc.
capacitate: To render capable; to enable; to qualify.By thih instruction we may be capaciated to observe those errors.Dryden.
capacity: Legal or noral qualification, as of age, residence, character,etc., necessary for certain purposes, as for holding office, formarrying, for making contracts, will, etc.; legal power or right;competency. Capacity for heat, the power of absorbing heat.Substances differ in the amount of heat requisite to raise them agiven number of thermometric degrees, and this difference is themeasure of, or depends upon, whzt is called their capacity for heat.See Specific heat, under Heat.
capape: See Cap-a-pie. Shak.
capapie: From head to foot; at all points. "He was armed cap-a-pie."Prescott.
caparro: A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), withprehensile tail.
capcase: A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.A capcase for your linen and your plate. Beau. & Fl.
cape: A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coastinto the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland. Cape buffalo(Zoöl.) a large and powerful buffalo of South Africa (BubalusCaffer). It is said to be the most dangerous wild beast of Africa.See Buffalo, 2.-- Cape jasmine, Cape jassamine. See Jasmine.-- Cape pigeon (Zoöl.), a petrel (Daptium Capense) common off theCape of Good Hope. It is about the size of a pigeon.-- Cape wine, wine made in South Africa [Eng.] -- The Cape, the Capeof Good Hope, in the general sense of southern extremity of Africa.Also used of Cape Horn, and, in New England, of Cape Cod.
capel: A composite stone (quartz, schorl, and hornlende) in the wallsof tin and copper lodes.
capelan: See Capelin.
capelin: A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the familySalmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland,Newfoundland, and Alaska. It is used as a bait for the cod. [Writtenalso capelan and caplin.]
capeline: A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stumpof an amputated limb.
capella: A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.
capellane: The curate of a chapel; a chaplain. [Obs.] Fuller.
capelle: The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.
capellet: A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heelof the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying dowm.
capellmeister: The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster.[Written also kepellmeister.]
caper: To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; toskip; to spring; to prance; to dance.He capers, he dances, he has eyes of youth. Shak.
caperberry: See Capper, a plant, 2.
caperclaw: To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; toabuse. [Obs.] Birch.
caperer: One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.The nimble capperer on the cord. Dryden.
capful: As much as will fill a cap. A capful of wind (Naut.), a lightpuff of wind.
capias: A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body ofthe person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writof capias.
capibara: See Capybara.
capillaceous: Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. SeeCapillary.
capillament: A filament. [R.]
capillariness: The quality of being capillary.
capillarity: The peculiar action by which the surface of a liquid, where itis in contact with a solid (as in a capillary tube), is elevated ordepressed; capillary attraction.
capillary: A minute, thin-walled vessel; particularly one of the smallestblood vessels connecting arteries and veins, but used also for thesmallest lymphatic and biliary vessels.
capillation: A capillary blood vessel. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
capillature: A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair. Clarke.
capilliform: In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.
capillose: Having much hair; hairy. [R.]
capistrate: Hooded; cowled.
capital: The head or uppermost member of a column, pilaster, etc. Itconsists generally of three parts, abacus, bell (or vase), andnecking. See these terms, and Column.
capitalist: One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or moneyinvested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed inbusiness.The expenditure of the capitalist. Burke.
capitalization: The act or process of capitalizing.
capitalness: The quality of being capital; preeminence. [R.]
capitate: Having the flowers gathered into a head.
capitatim: Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.
capite: See under Tenant.
capitellate: Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected intominute capitula.
capitibranchiata: A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or nearthe head. See Tubicola.
capitol: Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome. "Capitolian Jove."Macaulay. Capitoline games (Antiq.), annual games instituted at Romeby Camillus, in honor of Jupter Capitolinus, on account of thepreservation of the Capitol from the Gauls; when reinstituted byDomitian, arter a period of neglect, they were held every fifth year.
capitula: See Capitulum.
capitular: Of or pertaining to a chapter; capitulary.From the pope to the member of the capitular body. Milman.
capitularly: In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter. Sterne.
capitulary: Relating to the chapter of a cathedral; capitular. "Capitularyacts." Warton.
capitulate: To surrender or transfer, as an army or a fortress, on certainconditions. [R.]
capitulator: One who capitulates.
capitule: A summary. [Obs.]
capitulum: A knobike protuberance of any part, esp. at the end of a boneor cartilage.
capivi: A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.
caple: See Capel.
caplin: See Capelin.
capnomancy: Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.
capnomor: A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained frombeech tar. Watts.
capo tasto: A sort of bar or movable nut, attached to the finger board of aguitar or other  fretted instrument for the purpose of raisinguniformly the pitch of all the strings.
capoc: A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun,used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.
capoch: A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.
capon: A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded toimprove his flesh for the table. Shak.The merry thought of a capon. W. Irving.
caponet: A young capon. [R.] Chapman.
caponiere: A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from theenemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.
caponize: To castrate, as a fowl.
caporal: One who directs work; an overseer. [Sp. Amer.]
capot: A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet. It countsfor forty points. Hoyle.
capote: A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.
capouch: Same as Capoch.
cappadine: A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk hasbeen reeled off, used for shag.
cappaper: See cap, n., also Paper, n.
cappeak: The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.
cappeline: A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stumpof an amputated limb.
cappella: See A cappella.
capping plane: A plane used for working the upper surface of staircase rails.
capra: A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.
caprate: A salt of capric acid.
capreolate: Having a tendril or tendrils.
capreoline: Of or pertaining to the roebuck.
capri: Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry,white wine.
capric: Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives. Capricacid, C9H9.CO2H, Caprylic acid, C7H15.CO2H, and Caproic acid,C5H11.CO2H, are fatty acids occurring in small quantities in butter,cocoanut oil, etc., united with glycerin; they are colorless oils, orwhite crystalline solids, of an unpleasant odor like that of goats orsweat.
capriccio: A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from thetheme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.
caprice: See Capriccio.
capricious: Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly;freakish; whimsical; changeable. "Capricious poet." Shak. "Capricioushumor." Hugh Miller.A capricious partiality to the Romish practices. Hallam.
capricorn: The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at thewinter solstice, about December 21. See Tropic.The sun was entered into Capricorn. Dryden.
caprid: Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat,or genus Capra, is the type.
caprification: The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branchesof the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.
caprifole: The woodbine or honeysuckle. Spenser.
caprifoliaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family ofplants (Caprifoliacæ.
capriform: Having the form of a goat.
caprigenous: Of the goat kind.
caprine: Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.
capriole: A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, withoutadvancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at theheight of the leap.
capriped: Having feet like those of a goat.
caproate: A salt of caproic acid.
caproic: See under Capric.
caprylate: A salt of caprylic acid.
caprylic: See under Capric.
capsaicin: A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicumannuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.
capsheaf: The top sheaf of a stack of grain
capsicin: A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species ofcapsicum.
capsicine: A valatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or fromcapsicin.
capsicum: A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dryberries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, bitingtaste, and when ground form the red of Cayenne pepper of commerce.
capsize: To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.But what if carrying sail capsize the boat Byron.
capsquare: A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of acannon, and holds it in place.
capstan: A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an uprightspindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars orlevers. It is much used, especially on shipboard, for moving orraising heavy weights or exerting great power by traction upon a ropeor cable, passing around the drum. It is operated either by steampower or by a number of men walking around the capstan, each pushingon the end of a lever fixed in its socket. [Sometimes spelt Capstern,but improperly.] Capstan bar, one of the long bars or levers by whichthe capstan is worked; a handspike..-- To pawl the capstan, to drop the pawls so that they will catch inthe notches of the pawl ring, and prevent the capstan from turningback.-- To rig the capstan, to prepare the for use, by putting the barsin the sockets.-- To surge the capstan, to slack the tension of the rope or cablewound around it.
capstone: A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from itssupposed resemblance to a cap.
capsule: a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts orcarpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of thepoppy, the flax, the lily, etc.
capsulitis: Inflammation of a capsule, as that of the crystalline lens.
capsulotomy: The incision of a capsule, esp. of that of the crystallinelens, as in a cataract operation.
captain: To act as captain of; to lead. [R.]Men who captained or accompanied the exodus from existing forms.Lowell.
captaincy: The rank, post, or commission of a captain. Washington.Captaincy general, the office, power, teritory, or jurisdiction of acaptain general; as, the captaincy general of La Habana (Cuba and itsislands).
captainry: Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.[Obs.]
captation: A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; acaptivating quality; an attraction. [Obs.]Without any of those dresses, or popular captations, which some menuse in their speeches. Eikon Basilike.
caption: That part of a legal instrument, as a commission, indictment,etc., which shows where, when, and by what authority, it taken,found, or executed. Bouvier. Wharton.
captiously: In a captious manner.
captiousness: Captious disposition or manner.
captivate: Taken prisoner; made captive; insnared; charmed.Women have been captivate ere now. Shak.
captivating: Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivatingsmiles.-- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv.
captivation: The act of captivating. [R.]The captivation of our understanding. Bp. Hall.
captive: To take prisoner; to capture.Their inhabitans slaughtered and captived. Burke.
captor: One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.
capture: To seize or take possession of by force, surprise, orstratagem; to overcome and hold; to secure by effort.Her heart is like some fortress that has been captured. W. Ivring.
capuccio: A capoch or hood. [Obs.] Spenser.
capuched: Cover with, or as with, a hood. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
capuchin: A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 byMatteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl orcapoch of St. Francis.A bare-footed and long-bearded capuchin. Sir W. Scott.
capucine: See Capuchin, 3.
capulet: Same as Capellet.
capulin: The Mexican chery (Prunus Capollin).
caput: The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.
capybara: A large South American rodent (Hydrochærus capybara) Living onthe margins of lakes and rivers. It is the largest extant rodent,being about three feet long, and half that in height. It somewhatresembles the Guinea pig, to which it is related; -- called alsocabiai and water hog.
car: The stars also called Charles's Wain, the Great Bear, or theDipper.The Pleiads, Hyads, and the Northern Car. Dryden.
car mile: A mile traveled by a single car, taken as a unit ofcomputation, as in computing the average travel of each car of asystem during a given period.
car wheel: A flanged wheel of a railway car or truck.
carabao: The water buffalo. [Phil. Islands]
carabid: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or familyCarabidæ.-- n.
carabine: A carbine.
carabineer: A carbineer.
caraboid: Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.
carabus: A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species. Theydevour many injurious insects.
carac: See Carack.
caracal: A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa andAsia. Its ears are black externally, and tipped with long blackhairs.
caracara: A south American bird of several species and genera, resemblingboth the eagles and the vultures. The caracaras act as scavengers,and are also called carrion buzzards.
carack: A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards andPortuguese in the East India trade; a galleon. [Spelt also carrack.]The bigger whale like some huge carrack law. Waller.
caracole: A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or theleft.
caracoly: An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferiorquality of jewerly is made.
caracul: Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur.
carafe: A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called alsocroft.
carambola: An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicyfruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.
caramel: Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained byheating sugar. It is soluble in water, and is used for coloringspirits, gravies, etc.
carangoid: Belonging to the Carangidæ, a family of fishes allied to themackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilotfish.
caranx: A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including theyellow or goldon mackerel.
carapace: The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise,or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.
carapato: A south American tick of the genus Amblyamma. There are severalspecies, very troublesome to man and beast.
carapax: See Carapace.
caravaneer: The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.
caravansary: A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, beinga large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court. [Writtenalso caravanserai and caravansera.]
caravel: A name given to several kinds of vessels.(a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broadbows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails. Columbuscommanded three caravels on his great voyage.(b) A Portuguese vessel of 100 or 150 tons burden.(c) A small fishing boat used on the French coast.(d) A Turkish man-of-war.
caraway: A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui). The seedshave an aromatic smell, and a warm, pungent taste. They are used incookery and confectionery, and also in medicine as a carminative.
carbamic: Pertaining to an acid so called. Carbamic acid (Chem.), anamido acid, NH2.CO2H, not existing in the free state, but occurringas a salt of ammonium in commercial ammonium carbonate; -- calledalso amido formic acid.
carbamide: The technical name for urea.
carbamine: An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical. The carbamines areliquids, usually colorless, and of unendurable odor.
carbanil: A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor. It is the phenylsalt of isocyanic acid.
carbazol: A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from anilineand other amines.
carbazotate: A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.
carbazotic: Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen. Carbazoticacid (Chem.), picric acid. See under Picric.
carbide: A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical,in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termedcarburet.
carbimide: The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic.
carbine: A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mountedsoldiers or cavalry.
carbineer: A soldier armed with a carbine.
carbinol: Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in thehomologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol isthe type.
carbohydrate: One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, andgums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms,united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms, but withthe two latter always in proportion as to form water; as dextrose,C6H12O6.
carbohydride: A hydrocarbon.
carbolic: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tarand other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, andphenol). See Phenol.
carbolize: To apply carbonic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid.
carbon: An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which ispresent in all organic compounds. Atomic weight 11.97. Symbol C. itis combustible, and forms the base of lampblack and charcoal, andenters largely into mineral coals. In its pure crystallized state itconstitutes the diamond, the hardest of known substances, occuring inmonometric crystals like the octahedron, etc. Another modification isgraphite, or blacklead, and in this it is soft, and occurs inhexagonal prisms or tables. When united with oxygen it forms carbondioxide, commonly called carbonic acid, or carbonic oxide, accordingto the proportions of the oxygen; when united with hydrogen, it formsvarious compounds called hydrocarbons. Compare Diamond, and Graphite.Carbon compounds, Compounds of carbon (Chem.), those compoundsconsisting largely of carbon, commonly produced by animals andplants, and hence called organic compounds, though their synthesismay be effected in many cases in the laboratory.The formation of the compounds of carbon is not dependent upon thelife process. I. Remsen-Carbon dioxide, Carbon monoxide. (Chem.) See under Carbonic.-- Carbon light (Elec.), an extremely brilliant electric lightproduced by passing a galvanic current through two carbon points keptconstantly with their apexes neary in contact.-- Carbon point (Elec.), a small cylinder or bit of gas carbon movedforward by clockwork so that, as it is burned away by the electriccurrent, it shall contantly maintain its proper relation to theopposing point.-- Carbon tissue, paper coated with gelatine and pigment, used inthe autotype process of photography. Abney.-- Gas carbon, a compact variety of carbon obtained as anincrustation on the interior of gas retorts, and used for themanufacture of the carbon rods of pencils for the voltaic, arc, andfor the plates of voltaic batteries, etc.
carbon process: A printing process depending on the effect of light onbichromatized gelatin. Paper coated with a mixture of the gelatin anda pigment is called carbon paper or carbon tissue. This is exposedunder a negative and the film is transferred from the paper to someother support and developed by washing (the unexposed portions beingdissolved away). If the process stops here it is called singletransfer; if the image is afterward transferred in order to give anunreversed print, the method is called double transfer.
carbon steel: Steel deriving its qualities from carbon chiefly, without thepresence of other alloying elements; --opposed to alloy steel.
carbon transmitter: A telephone transmitter in which a carbon contact is used.
carbonaceous: Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.
carbonado: A black variety of diamond, found in Brazil, and used fordiamond drills. It occurs in irregular or rounded fragments, rarelydistinctly crystallized, with a texture varying from compact toporous.
carbonarism: The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari.
carbonaro: A member of a secret political association in Italy, organizedin the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose ofchanging the government into a republic.
carbonatation: The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas.Knight.
carbonate: A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of leadore, etc.
carbonated: Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid.
carbone: To broil. [Obs.] "We had a calf's head carboned". Pepys.
carbonic: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonicoxide. Carbonic acid (Chem.), an acid H2CO3, not existing separately,which, combined with positive or basic atoms or radicals, formscarbonates. On common language the term is very generally applied toa compound of carbon and oxygen, CO2, more correctly called carbondioxide. It is a colorless, heavy, irrespirable gas, extinguishingflame, and when breathed destroys life. It can be reduced to a liquidand solid form by intense pressure. It is produced in thefermentation of liquors, and by the combustion and decomposition oforganic substances, or other substances containing carbon. It isformed in the explosion of fire damp in mines, and is hance calledafter damp; it is also know as choke damp, and mephilic air. Waterwill absorb its own volume of it, and more than this under pressure,and in this state becomes the common soda water of the shops, and thecarbonated water of natural springs. Combined with lime itconstitutes limestone, or common marble and chalk. Plants imbibe itfor their nutrition and growth, the carbon being retained and theoxygen given out.-- Carbonic oxide (Chem.), a colorless gas, CO, of a light odor,called more correctly carbon monoxide. It is almost the onlydefinitely known compound in which carbon seems to be divalent. It isa product of the incomplete combustion of carbon, and is an abundantconstituent of water gas. It is fatal to animal life, extinguishescombustion, and burns with a pale blue flame, forming carbon dioxide.
carbonide: A carbide. [R.]
carboniferous: Producing or containing carbon or coal. Carboniferous age(Geol.), the age immediately following the Devonian, or Age offishes, and characterized by the vegatation which formed the coalbeds. This age embraces three periods, the Subcarboniferous, theCarboniferous, and Permian. See Age of acrogens, under Acrogen.-- Carboniferous formation (Geol.), the series of rocks (includingsandstones, shales, limestones, and conglomerates, with beds of coal)which make up the strata of the Carboniferous age or period. See theDiagram under Geology.
carbonite: An explosive consisting essentially of nitroglycerin, woodmeal, and some nitrate, as that of sodium.
carbonization: The act or process of carbonizing.
carbonometer: An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbonwhich is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by itsaction on limewater or by other means.
carbonyl: The radical (CO)'\'b7, occuring, always combined, in manycompounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride,etc.
carborundum: A beautiful crystalline compound, SiC, consisting of carbon andsilicon in combination; carbon silicide. It is made by heating carbonand sand together in an electric furnace. The commercial article isdark-colored and iridescent. It is harder than emery, and is used asan abrasive.
carbostyril: A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid propertiesderived from one of the amido cinnamic acids.
carboxide: A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some elementor radical; as, potassium carboxide. Potassium carboxide, a grayishexplosive crystalline compound, C6O6K, obtained by passing carbonmonoxide over heated potassium.
carboxyl: The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential andcharacteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (asformic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called alsooxatyl.
carboy: A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass,inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonlyfor carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc.
carbuncle: A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet)called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies. When held upto the sun, it loses its deep tinge, and becomes of the color ofburning coal. The name belongs for the most part to ruby sapphire,though it has been also given to red spinel and garnet.
carbuncular: Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red;inflamed.
carbunculation: The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessiveheat or caold. Harris.
carburet: A carbide. See Carbide [Archaic]
carburetant: Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases.
carbureted: Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.
carburetor: An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passedthrough or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer orincrease illuminating power. [Written also carburettor.]
carburization: The act, process, or result of carburizing.
carburize: To combine wtih carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of aprocess for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power oncombustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of valatilehydrocarbons.
carcajou: The wolverence; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canadalynx, and sometimes to the American badger. See Wolverene.
carcanet: A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar. [Also written carkenetand carcant.] Shak.
carcase: See Carcass.
carcass: A hollow case or shell, filled with combustibles, to be thrownfrom a mortar or howitzer, to set fire to buldings, ships, etc.A discharge of carcasses and bombshells. W. Iving.
carcavelhos: A sweet wine. See Calcavella.
carcel lamp: A French mechanical lamp, for lighthouses, in which asuperbundance of oil is pumped to the wick tube by clockwork.
carcelage: Prison fees. [Obs.]
carceral: Belonging a prison. [R.] Foxe.
carcinological: Of or pertaining to carcinology.
carcinology: The depertment of zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea(lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology andcrustaceology.
carcinoma: A cancer. By some medical writers, the term is applied to anindolent tumor. See Cancer. Dunglison.
carcinomatous: Of or pertaining to carcinoma.
carcinosys: The affection of the system with cancer.
card: A perforated pasteboard or sheet-metal plate for warp threads,making part of the Jacquard apparatus of a loom. See Jacquard.
cardamine: A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock,cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc.
cardamom: A plant which prduces cardamoms, esp. Elettaria Cardamomum andseveral of Amommum.
cardboard: A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for makingcards, etc., often having a polished surface.
cardcase: A case for visiting cards.
cardecu: A quarter of a crown. [Obs.]The bunch of them were not worth a cardecu. Sir W. Scott.
carder: One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. Shak.
cardiac: Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiacarteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.
cardiacal: Cardiac.
cardiacle: A pain about the heart. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cardiagraph: See Cardiograph.
cardigan jacket: A warm jacket of knit worsted with or without sleeves.
cardinal: Of fundamental importance; preëminet; superior; chief;principal.The cardinal intersections of the zodiac. Sir T. Browne.Impudence is now a cardinal virtue. Drayton.But cardinal sins, and hollow hearts, I fear ye. Shak.Cardinal numbers, the numbers one, two, three, etc., in distinctionfrom first, second, third, etc., which are called ordinal numbers.-- Cardinal points (a) (Geol.) The four principal points of thecompass, or intersections of the horizon with the meridian and theprime vertical circle, north, south east, and west. (b) (Astrol.) Therising and setting of the sun, the zenith and nadir.-- Cardinal signs (Astron.) Aries, Lidra, Cancer, and Capricorn.-- Cardinal teeth (Zoöl.), the central teeth of bivalve shell. SeeBivalve.-- Cardinal veins (Anat.), the veins in vertebrate embryos, whichrun each side of the vertebral column and returm the blood to theheart. They remain through life in some fishes.-- Cardinal virtues, preëminent virtues; among the ancients,prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude.-- Cardinal winds, winds which blow from the cardinal points duenorth, south, east, or west.
cardinalate: The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal.
cardinalize: To exalt to the office of a cardinal. Sheldon.
cardinalship: The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal
cardiogram: The curve or tracing made by a cardiograph.
cardiograph: An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest,will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity ofthe heart's movements.
cardiographic: Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph.
cardioid: An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart.
cardioinhibitory: Checking or arresting the heart's action.
cardiolgy: The science which treats of the heart and its functions.
cardiometry: Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation.
cardiosclerosis: Induration of the heart, caused by development of fibroustissue in the cardiac muscle.
cardiosphygmograph: A combination of cardiograph and shygmograph.
carditis: Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart.See Endocardris and Pericarditis. Dunglison.
cardol: A yellow oil liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashewnut.
cardoon: A large herbaceos plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to theartichoke; -- used in cookery and as a sald.
care: To be anxious or solictous; to be concerned; to have regard orinterest; -- sometimes followed by an objective of measure.I would not care a pin, if the other three were in. Shak.Master, carest thou not that we perish Mark. iv. 38.To care for. (a) To have under watchful attention; to take care of.(b) To have regard or affection for; to like or love.He cared not for the affection of the house. Tennyson.
care-tuned: Weary; mournful.  Shak.
careen: To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on oneside, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairsbelow the water line; to case to be off the keel.
career: The fight of a hawk.
carefully: In a careful manner.
carefulness: Quality or state of being careful.
carelessly: In a careless manner.
carelessness: The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness;negligenece; inattention.
carene: A fast of forty days on bread and water. [Obs.]
caress: An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; anembracing, or touching, with tenderness.Wooed her with his soft caresses. Langfellow.He exerted himself to win by indulgence and caresses the hearts ofall who were under his command. Macaulay.
caressingly: In caressing manner.
caret: A mark [^] used by writers and proof readers to indicate thatsomething is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, whichbelongs in the place marked by the caret.
caretuned: Weary; mournful. Shak.
careworn: Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face.
carex: A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceousplants of the order Cypreaceæ; the sedges.
carf: pret. of Carve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cargason: A cargo. [Obs.]
cargo: The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods,merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load;freight.Cargoes of food or clothing. E. Everett.
cargoose: A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.
cariama: A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophuscristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema.
carib: A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbeansea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of SouthAmerica, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West Indiaislands.
caribbee: A Carib.
caribe: A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo ofmany species, remakable for its voracity. When numerous they attackman or beast, often with fatal results.
caribou: The American reindeer, especially the common or woodlandspecies (Rangifer Caribou). Barren Ground caribou. See under Barren.-- Woodland caribou, the common reindeer (Rangifer Caribou) of thenorthern forests of America.
caricature: To make or draw a caricature of; to represent with ridiculousexaggeration; to burlesque.He could draw an ill face, or caricature a good one, with a masterlyhand. Lord Lyttelton.
caricaturist: One who caricatures.
caricous: Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor. Graig.
caries: Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates andis carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in whichit dies in masses.
carillon: A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or byfinger keys.
carina: A keel.(a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals,commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification.(b) A longitudinal ridge or projection like the keel of a boat.
carinaria: A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy,bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills.
carinatae: A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds;-- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.
cariopsis: See Caryopsis.
cariosity: Caries.
carious: Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth.
cark: A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry. [Archaic.]His heavy head, devoid of careful cark. Spenser.Fling cark and care aside. Motherwell.Ereedom from the cares of money and the cark of fashion. R. D.Blackmore.
carkanet: A carcanet. Southey.
carking: Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carkingcares.
carl: A kind of food. See citation, below.Caring or carl are gray steeped in water and fried the next day inbutter or fat. They are eaten on the second Sunday before Easter,formerly called Carl Sunday. Robinson's Whitby Glossary (1875).
carlin: An old woman. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
carline thistle: A prickly plant of the genus Carlina (C. vulgaris), found inEurope and Asia.
carlings: Same as Carl, 3. Carling Sunday, a Sunday in Lent when carlsare eaten. In some parts of England, Passion Sunday. See Carl, 4.
carlist: A parisan of Charles X. Of France, or of Dod Carlos of Spain.
carlock: A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of thesturgeon, and used in clarifying wine.
carlot: A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman. [Obs.] Shak.
carlovingian: Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as,the Carlovingian race of kings.
carman: A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, acar or car.
carmelite: A friar of a mendicant order (the Order of Our Lady of MountCarmel) established on Mount Carmel, in Syria, in the twelfthcentury; a White Friar.
carminated: Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake.Tomlinson.
carminative: Expelling wind from the body; warning; antispasmodic."Carmenative hot seeds." Dunglison.
carmine: The essential coloring principle of cochineal, extracted as apurple-red amorphous mass. It is a glucoside and possesses acidproperties; -- hence called also carminic acid. Carmine red (Chem.),a coloring matter obtained from carmine as a purple-red substance,and probably allied to the phthaleïns.
carminic: Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine. Carminic acid.Same as Carmine, 3.
carmot: The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to becomposed.
carnal-minded: Worldly-minded.
carnal-mindedness: Grossness of mind.
carnalism: The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism. [R.]
carnalist: A sensualist. Burton.
carnality: The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence oflust; grossness of mind.Because of the carnality of their hearts. Tillotson.
carnalize: To make carnal; to debase to carnality.A sensual and carnalized spirit. John Scott.
carnallite: A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes foundassociated with deposits of rock salt.
carnally: According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in amanner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually.For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded islife and peace. Rom. viii. 6.
carnary: A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as arepository for human bones disintered from their original burialplaces; a charnel house.
carnassial: Adapted to eating flesh.-- n.
carnate: Invested with, or embodied in, flesh.
carnation: Those parts of a picture in which the human body or any part ofit is represented in full color; the flesh tints.The flesh tints in painting are termed carnations. Fairholt.
carnationed: Having a flesh color.
carnauba: The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm.
carnelian: A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, orreddish white color. It is moderately hard, capable of a good polish,and often used for seals.
carneous: Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy. "Carneousfibers." Ray.
carney: A disease of horses, on which the mouth is so furred that theafflicted animal can not eat.
carnic: Of or pertaining to flesh; specif. (Physiol. Chem.),
carnifex: The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of thelowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman.
carnification: The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substanceresembling flesh.
carnify: To form flesh; to become like flesh. Sir M. Hale.
carnin: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract ofmeat, and related to xanthin.
carnivora: An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear,seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh,though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food. The teethare large and sharp, suitable for cutting flesh, and the jawspowerful.
carnivoracity: Greediness of appetite for flesh. [Sportive.] Pope.
carnivore: One of the Carnivora.
carnivorous: Eating or feeding on flesh. The term is applied
carnosity: A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungousgrowth. Wiseman.
carob: An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in thecountries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; --called also carob tree.
caroche: A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach. [Obs.]To mount two-wheeled caroches. Butler.
caroched: Placed in a caroche. [Obs.]Beggary rides caroched. Massenger.
caroigne: Dead body; carrion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
carol: To sing; esp. to sing joyfully; to warble.And carol of love's high praise. Spenser.The gray linnets carol from the hill. Beattie.
carolin: A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also,a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.
carolina pink: See Pinkboot.
caroline: A coin. See Carline.
caroling: A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols. Coleridge.Such heavenly notes and carolings. Spenser.
carolinian: A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina.
carolitic: Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches.
carolus: An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-threeshillings. It was first struck in the reign of Charles I.Told down the crowns and Caroluses. Macawlay.
carom: A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contactwith two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more ballswith the player's ball. In England it is called cannon.
caromel: See Caramel.
caroteel: A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs.Simmonds.
carotic: Carotid; as, the carotic arteries.
carotid: One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood isconveyed from the aorta to the head.
carotin: A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from thecarrot.
carotte: A cylindrical roll of tobacco; as, a carotte of perique.
carousal: A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.The swains were preparing for a carousal. Sterne.
carouse: To drink deeply or freely in compliment; to take in a carousal;to engage in drunken revels.He had been aboard, carousing to his mates. Shak.
carouser: One who carouses; a reveler.
carousing: That carouses; relating to a carouse.
carousingly: In the manner of a carouser.
carp: A fresh-water herbivorous fish (Cyprinus carpio.). Severalother species of Cyprinus, Catla, and Carassius are called carp. SeeCruclan carp.
carpal: Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist.-- n.
carpale: One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of theseries articulating with the metacarpals.
carpathian: Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary,called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north,east, and south.
carpellary: Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels.
carpenter: An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder ofhouses, ships, etc.
carpentering: The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of workingintimber; carpentry.
carper: One who carps; a caviler. Shak.
carpet: To cover with, or as with, a carpet; to spread with carpets; tofurnish with a carpet or carpets.Carpeted temples in fashionable squares. E. Everett.
carpetbag: A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originallymade of carpet.
carpetbagger: An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seekingprivate gain or political advancement in the southern part of theUnited States after the Civil War (1865). [U. S.]
carpeting: 1. The act of covering with carpets.
carpetless: Without a carpet.
carpetway: A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field.Ray.
carphology: See Flaccillation.
carping: Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious.-- Carp"ing*ly, adv.
carpintero: A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted forits habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees. Theacorns become infested by insect larvæ, which, when grown, areextracted for food by the bird.
carpogenic: Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.
carpolite: A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed.
carpological: Of or pertaining to carpology.
carpologist: One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.
carpology: That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seedsand fruit.
carpophagous: Living on fruits; fruit-consuming.
carpophore: A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between thecarpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants.
carpophyll: A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of afruit; a carpel.
carpophyte: A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result offertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.
carpospore: A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algæ.-- Car`po*spor"ic (, a.
carpus: The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, orantibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eightshort bones disposed in two rows.
carrack: See Carack.
carrancha: The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called inimitation of its notes.
carraway: See Caraway.
carrel: See Quarrel, an arrow.
carriable: Capable of being carried.
carriageable: Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages. [R.]Ruskin.
carriboo: See Caribou.
carrick: A carack. See Carack. Carrick bend (Naut.), a kind of knot,used for bending together hawsers or other ropes.-- Carrick bitts (Naut.), the bitts which support the windlass.Totten.
carrier: That which drives or carries; as
carrion: Of or pertaining to dead and putrefying carcasses; feeding oncarrion.A prey for carrion kites. Shak.Carrion beetle (Zoöl.), any beetle that feeds habitually on deadanimals; -- also called sexton beetle and burying beetle. There aremany kinds, belonging mostly to the family Silphidæ.-- Carrion buzzard (Zoöl.), a South American bird of several speciesand genera (as Ibycter, Milvago, and Polyborus), which act asscavengers. See Caracara.-- Carrion crow, the common European crow (Corvus corone) whichfeeds on carrion, insects, fruits, and seeds.
carrol: See 4th Carol.
carrom: See Carom.
carromata: In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicleusually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengerswithin city limits or for traveling. It is the common publiccarriage.
carron oil: A lotion of linseed oil and lime water, used as an applicationto burns and scalds; -- first used at the Carron iron works inScotland.
carronade: A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw alarge projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose ofbreaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at,as the side of a ship. It has no trunnions, but is supported on itscarriage by a bolt passing through a loop on its under side.
carrot: An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of manyvarieties.
carroty: Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given toreddish yellow hair, etc.
carrow: A strolling gamester. [Ireland] Spenser.
carry: To have earth or frost stick to the feet when running, as ahare. Johnson. To carry on, to behave in a wild, rude, or rompingmanner. [Colloq.]
carryall: A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for fouror more persons, usually drawn by one horse.
carrying: The act or business of transporting from one place to another.Carrying place, a carry; a portage.-- Carrying trade, the business of transporting goods, etc., fromone place or country to another by water or land; freighting.We are rivals with them in . . . the carrying trade. Jay.
carryk: A carack. [Obs.] Chaucer.
carrytale: A talebearer. [R.] Shak.
carse: Low, fertile land; a river valley. [Scot.] Jomieson.
cart: To carry burdens in a cart; to follow the business of a carter.
cartbote: Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairingcarts and other instruments of husbandry.
carte blanche: A blank paper, with a person's signature, etc., at the bottom,given to another person, with permission to superscribe whatconditions he pleases. Hence
carte quarte: A position in thrusting or parrying, with the inside of thehand turned upward and the point of the weapon toward the adversary'sright breast.
cartel: An agreement between belligerents for the exchange ofprisoners. Wilhelm.
cartesian: Of or pertaining to the French philosopher René Descartes, orhis philosophy.The Cartesion argument for reality of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.Cartesian coördinates (Geom), distance of a point from lines orplanes; -- used in a system of representing geometric quantities,invented by Descartes.-- Cartesian devil, a small hollow glass figure, used in connectionwith a jar of water having an elastic top, to illustrate the effectof the compression or expansion of air in changing the specificgravity of bodies.-- Cartesion oval (Geom.), a curve such that, for any point of thecurve mr + m'r' = c, where r and r' are the distances of the pointfrom the two foci and m, m' and c are constant; -- used by Descartes.
cartesianism: The philosophy of Descartes.
carthaginian: Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa.-- n.
carthamin: A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamustinctorius.
carthusian: A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded atChartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086.
cartilage: A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.
cartilagineous: See Cartilaginous. Ray.
cartilaginification: The act or process of forming cartilage. Wright.
cartilaginous: Having the skeleton in the state of cartilage, the bonescontaining little or no calcareous matter; said of certain fishes, asthe sturgeon and the sharks.
cartist: In Spain and Portugal, one who supports the constitution.
cartman: One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter.
cartogram: A map showing geographically, by shades or curves, statisticsof various kinds; a statistical map.
cartographer: One who make charts or maps.
cartographically: By cartography.
cartography: The act business of forming chart's or maps.
cartomancy: The act of telling fortunes with cards.
carton: Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box. Cartonpierre (, a species of papier-maché, imitating stone or bronzesculpture. Knight.
cartoonist: One skilled in drawing cartoons.
cartouch: An oval figure on monuments, and in papyri, containing the nameof a sovereign.
cartridge: A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held togetherby, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or othermaterial. Ball cartridge, a cartridge containing a projectile.-- Blank cartrige, a cartridge without a projectile, -- Center-firecartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate occupies an axialposition usually in the center of the base of the capsule, instead ofbeing contained in its rim. In the Prussian needle gun the fulminateis applied to the middle of the base of the bullet. Rim-firecartridge, a cartridge in which the fulminate is contained in a rimsurrounding its base.-- Cartridge bag, a bag of woolen cloth, to hold a charge for acannon.-- Cartridge belt, a belt having pocket for cartridges.-- Cartridge box, a case, usually of leather, attached to a belt orstrap, for holding cartridges.-- Cartridge paper. (a) A thick stout paper for inclosingcartridges. (b) A rough tinted paper used for covering walls, andalso for making drawings upon.
cartulary: Defn:
cartway: A way or road for carts.
cartwright: An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker.
carucage: A tax on every plow or plowland.
carucate: A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and aday; -- by some said to be about 100 acres. Burrill.
carus: Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.
carvacrol: A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste anddisagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).
carve: A carucate. [Obs.] Burrill.
carvelbuilt: Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lappingas in a clinker-built vessel.
carven: Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved. [Poetic]A carven bowl well wrought of beechen tree. Bp. Hall.The carven cedarn doors. Tennyson.A screen of carven ivory. Mrs. Browning.
carvene: An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway.
carvist: A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on thehand; a hawk in its first year. Booth.
carvol: One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.
caryatid: (Arch.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, inthe place of a column or pilaster.
caryatides: Caryatids.
caryophyllin: A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted fromcloves, polymeric with common camphor.
caryophyllous: Caryophyllaceous.
caryopsis: A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranouspericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed areincorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat,barley, etc.
casa: A house or mansion. [Sp. Amer. & Phil. Islands]
casal: Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.
cascabel: The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually aknob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck. In oldwriters it included all in rear of the base ring.
cascade: A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; awaterfall less than a cataract.The silver brook . . . pours the white cascade. Longjellow.Now murm'ring soft, now roaring in cascade. Cawper.
cascade method: A method of attaining successively lower temperatures byutilizing the cooling effect of the expansion of one gas incondensing another less easily liquefiable, and so on.
cascade system: A system or method of connecting and operating two inductionmotors so that the primary circuit of one is connected to thesecondary circuit of the other, the primary circuit of the latterbeing connected to the source of supply; also, a system of electrictraction in which motors so connected are employed. The cascadesystem is also called tandem, or concatenated, system; the connectiona cascade, tandem, or concatenated, connection, or a concatenation;and the control of the motors so obtained a tandem, or concatenation,control. In the cascade system of traction the cascade connection isused for starting and for low speeds up to half speed. For full speedthe short-circuited motor is cut loose from the other motor and iseither left idle or (commonly) connected direct to the line.
cascalho: A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in whichthe Brazilian diamond is usually found.
cascara buckthorn: The buckthorn (Rhamnus Purshiana) of the Pacific coast of theUnited States, which yields cascara sagrada.
cascara sagrada: Holy bark; the bark of the California buckthorn (RhamnusPurshianus), used as a mild cathartic or laxative.
cascarilla: A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also,its aromatic bark. Cascarilla bark (or Cascarila) (Med.), the bark ofCroton Eleutheria. It has an aromatic odor and a warm, spicy, bittertaste, and when burnt emits a musky odor. It is used as a gentletonic, and sometimes, for the sake of its fragrance, mixed withsmoking tobacco, when it is said to occasion vertigo andintoxication.
cascarillin: A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil ofcascarilla.
cascaron: Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti tobe thrown during balls, carnivals, etc. [Western U. S.]
case: A shallow tray divided into compartments or "boxes" for holdingtype.
case shot: A collection of small projectiles, inclosed in a case orcanister.
case system: The system of teaching law in which the instruction isprimarily a historical and inductive study of leading or selectedcases, with or without the use of textbooks for reference andcollateral reading.
caseation: A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.
casehardening: The act or process of converting the surface of iron intosteel. Ure.
caseic: OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.
casein: A proteid substance present in both the animal and thevegetable kingdom. In the animal kindom it is chiefly found in milk,and constitutes the main part of the curd separated by rennet; in thevegetable kingdom it is found more or less abundantly in the seeds ofleguminous plants. Its reactions resemble those of alkali albumin.[Written also caseine.]
casemate: A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may beplaced, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being usedas a magazine, or for quartering troops.
casemated: Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.Campbell.
casement: A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side ofthe frame into which it is fitted. (Poetically) A window.A casement of the great chamber window. Shak.
casemented: Having a casement or casements.
caseose: A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric andpancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen.
caseous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualitiesof cheese; cheesy. Caseous degeneration, a morbid process, inscrofulous or consumptive persons, in which the products ofinflammation are converted into a cheesy substance which is neitherabsorbed nor organized.
casern: A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near therampart; barracks. Bescherelle.
caseum: Same as Casein.
caseworm: A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.
cash: A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paidout; a money box. [Obs.]This bank is properly a general cash, where every man lodges hismoney. Sir W. Temple.£20,000 are known to be in her cash. Sir R. Winwood.
cash railway: A form of cash carrier in which a small carrier or car travelsupon a kind of track.
cash register: A device for recording the amount of cash received, usuallyhaving an automatic adding machine and a money drawer and exhibitingthe amount of the sale.
cashbook: A book in which is kept a register of money received or paidout.
cashew: A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which thesumac. It is native in tropical America, but is now naturalized inall tropical countries. Its fruit, a kidney-shaped nut, grows at theextremity of an edible, pear-shaped hypocarp, about three incheslong. Casbew nut, the large, kidney-shaped fruit of the cashew, whichis edible after the caustic oil has been expelled from the shell byroasting the nut.
cashier: One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who hascharge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of abank or a mercantile company.
cashierer: One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer ofmonarchs. [R.] Burke.
cashmerette: A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface likecashmere.
cashoo: See Catechu.
casings: Dried dung of cattle used as fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Waterland.
cask: To put into a cask.
casket: A gasket. See Gasket.
casque: A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without avizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.His casque overshadowed with brilliant plumes. Prescott.
cass: To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.[Obs.] Sir W. Raleing.
cassada: See Cassava.
cassareep: A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihotutilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated byboiling, and flavored with aromatics. See Pepper pot.
cassate: To render void or useless; to vacate or annul. [Obs.]
cassation: The act of annulling.A general cassation of their constitutions. Motley.Court of cassation, the highest court of appeal in France, which haspower to quash (Casser) or reverse the decisions of the inferiorcourts.
cassava: A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, withfleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.
cassava wood: A West Indian tree (Turpinia occidentalis) of the familyStaphyleaceæ.
casse paper: Broken paper; the outside quires of a ream.
casse-tete: A small war club, esp. of savages; -- so called because of itssupposed use in crushing the skull.
casserole: A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.
cassette: Same as Seggar.
cassia: A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of manyspecies, most of which have purgative qualities. The leaves ofseveral species furnish the senna used in medicine.
cassican: An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlingsand orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspendednest; the crested oriole. The name is also sometimes given to thepiping crow, an Australian bird.
cassideous: Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet-shaped upper petal, as in aconite.
cassimere: A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.[Written also kerseymere.]
cassinette: A cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, orwool and silk.
cassinian ovals: See under Oval.
cassino: A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually fortwenty-one points. Great cassino, the ten of diamonds.-- Little cassino, the two of spades.
cassioberry: The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows fromVirginia to Florida.
cassiopeia: A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated betweenCapheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, afabuolous king of Ethiopia. Cassiopeia's Chair, a group of six stars,in Cassiopeia, somewhat resembling a chair.
cassiterite: Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring intetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantineluster; also massive, sometimes in compact forms with concentricfibrous structure resembling wood (wood tin), also in rolledfragments or pebbly (Stream tin). It is the chief source of metallictin. See Black tin, under Black.
cassius: A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of somecompounds of tin upon certain salts of gold. It is used in paintingand staining porcelain and glass to give a beautiful purple color.Commonly called Purple of Cassius.
cassock: A garment resembling a long frock coat worn by the clergy ofcertain churches when officiating, and by others as the usually outergarment.
cassocked: Clothed with a cassock.
cassolette: a box, or vase with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.
cassonade: Raw sugar; sugar not refined. Mc Elrath.
cassowary: A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies.It is smaller and stouter than the ostrich. Its head is armed with akind of helmet of horny substance, consisting of plates overlappingeach other, and it has a group of long sharp spines on each wingwhich are used as defensive organs. It is a shy bird, and runs withgreat rapidity. Other species inhabit New Guinea, Australia, etc.
cast: To stereotype or electrotype.
cast iron: Highly carbonized iron, the direct product of the blastfurnace; -- used for making castings, and for conversion into wroughtiron and steel. It can not be welded or forged, is brittle, andsometimes very hard. Besides carbon, it contains sulphur, phosphorus,silica, etc.
cast steel: See Cast steel, under Steel.
cast-iron: Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.
cast-off: Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.
castalian: Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain ofinspiration on Mt. Parnassus sacred to the Muses. Milton.
castanea: A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnutand chinquapin.
castanet: See Castanets.
castanets: Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped likespoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middlefinger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment totheir dance and guitars.
castaway: Of no value; rejected; useless.
castellan: A goveror or warden of a castle.
castellany: The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdictionappertaining to a castle.
castellation: The act of making into a castle.
castigator: One who castigates or corrects.
castigatory: Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.
castile soap: A kind of fine, hard, white or mottled soap, made with oliveand soda; also, a soap made in imitation of the above-described soap.
castillan: Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.
castle: To move the castle to the square next to king, and then theking around the castle to the square next beyond it, for the purposeof covering the king.
castle-guard: A tax or imposition an a dwelling within a certain distance ofa castle, for the purpose of maintaining watch and ward in it;castle-ward.
castlebuilder: Fig.
castled: Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castledheight or crag.
castlery: The government of a castle. Blount.
castlet: A small castle. Leland.
castleward: Same as Castleguard.
castling: That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.Sir T. Browne.
castor: A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.
castor and pollux: See Saint Elmo's fire, under Saint.
castor bean: The bean or seed of the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, orPalma Christi.)
castor oil: A mild cathartic oil, expressed or extracted from the seeds ofthe Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi. When fresh the oil isinodorus and insipid. Castor-oil plant. Same as Palma Christi.
castoreum: A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong,penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and externalgenitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as anantispasmodic, and by perfumers.
castorin: A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.
castrametation: The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of acamp.
castration: The act of castrating.
castrato: A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voicefor singing; an artificial, or male, soprano. Swift.
castrel: See Kestrel.
castrensial: Belonging to a camp. Sir T. Browne.
castrensian: Castrensial. [R.]
casual: One who receives relief for a night in a parish to which hedoes not belong; a vagrant.
casualism: The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.
casualist: One who believes in casualism.
casually: Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance;occasionally.
casualness: The quality of being casual.
casualty: Numerical loss caused by death, wounds, discharge, ordesertion. Casualty ward, A ward in a hospital devoted to thetreatment of injuries received by accident.
casuarina: A genus of leafles trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets ofa rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia. Some of them arelarge, producing hard and heavy timber of excellent quality, calledbeefwood from its color.
casuist: One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.The judment of any casuist or learned divine concerning the state ofa man's soul, is not sufficient to give him confidence. South.
casus: An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination ofcircumstances; a case; an act of God. See the Note under Accident.Casus belli, an event or combination of events which is a cause war,or may be alleged as a justification of war.-- Casus fortuitus, an accident against which due prudence could nothave provided. See Act of God, under Act.-- Casus omissus, a case not provided for by the statute.
cat: An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx. Thedomestic cat is Felis domestica. The European wild cat (Felis catus)is much larger than the domestic cat. In the United States the namewild cat is commonly applied to the bay lynx (Lynx rufus) See Wildcat, and Tiger cat.
cat-eyed: Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.
cat-harpin: See Cat-harping.
cat-harping: One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in theshrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.
cat-hole: One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, throughwhich hawsers may be passed.
cat-rigged: Rigged like a catboat.
cat-salt: A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern orleach brine.
cat-silver: Mica. [Archaic]
cat-tail: A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, withlong, glat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindricalspike at the top of the stem. The leaves are frequently used forseating chairs, making mats, etc. See Catkin.
cata: The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as aprefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposedto, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh. It sometimes dropsthe final vowel, as in catoptric; and is sometimes changed to cath,as in cathartic, catholic.
catabaptist: One who opposes baptism, especially of infants. [Obs.] Featley.
catabasion: A vault under altar of a Greek church.
catabiotic: Aee under Force.
catacaustic: Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curveformed by reflection. See Caustic, a. Nichol.
catachresis: A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or bywhich a word is wrested from its true signification; as, "To takearms against a sea of troubles. " Shak. "Her voice was but the shadowof a sound." Young.
cataclasm: A breaking asunder; disruption.
cataclysm: Any violent catastrophe, involving sudden and extensive changesof the earth's surface.
cataclysmist: One who believes that the most important geological phenomenahave been produced by cataclysms.
catacomb: A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used forthe burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.
catacoustic: That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds orechoes See Acoustics. Hutton.
catacrotic: Designating, pertaining to, or characterized by, that form ofpulse tracing, or sphygmogram, in which the descending portion of thecurve is marked by secondary elevations due to two or more expansionsof the artery in the same beat. -- Ca*tac"rotism (#), n.
catadicrotism: Quality or state of being catacrotic. -- Cat`a*di*crot"ic (#),a.
catadioptrics: The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of theused of catadioptric instruments.
catadrome: A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.
catadromous: Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachisthan the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching inferns, and opposed to anadromous.
catafalco: See Catafalque.
catafalque: A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnitiesof eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, ortheir conveyance to the place of burial.
catagmatic: Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.
cataian: A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term ofreproach. Shak.
catalan: Of or pertaining to Catalonia.-- n.
catalectic: Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfectfoot; as, a catalectic verse.
cataleptic: Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected withcatalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.
catallacta: A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphæra is the type. Theyexist both in a myxopod state, with branched pseudopodia, and in theform of ciliated bodies united in free, spherical colonies.
catallactics: The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.
catalog: Catalogue.
catalogize: To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue. [R.]Coles.
catalogue: A list or enumeration of names, or articles arrangedmethodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of thestudents of a college, or of books, or of the stars. Card catalogue,a catalogue, as of books, having each item entered on a separatecard, and the cards arranged in cases by subjects, or authors, oralphabetically.-- Catalogue raisonné Etym
cataloguer: A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making ofcatalogues.
catalpa: A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the bestknow species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental NorthAmerican tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods,and the C. speciosa, of the Mississipi valley; -- called also Indianbean.
catalytic: Relating to, or causing, catalysis. "The catalytic power is illunderstood." Ure. Catalytic force, that form of chemical energyformerly supposed to determine catalysis.
catamenia: The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.
catamenial: Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.
catamite: A boy kept for unnatural purposes.
catamount: The cougar. Applied also, in some parts of the United States,to the lynx.
catanadromous: Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, asthe salmon; anadromous. [R.]
catapasm: A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkleon ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc. Dunglison.
catapeltic: Of or pertaining to a catapult.
catapetalous: Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to theirbases, as in the mallow.
cataphonic: Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.
cataphonics: That branch of acoustics which treats of reflested sounds;catacoustics.
cataphract: Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for thehorse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some easternnations.
cataphracted: Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; orwith that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard,callous skin, etc.
cataphractic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.
cataphysical: Unnatural; contrary to nature. [R.]Some artists . . . have given to Sir Walter Scott a pile of foreheadwhich is unpleassing and cataphysical. De Quincey.
cataplasm: A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part ofthe body; a poultice. Dunglison.
cataplexy: A morbid condition caused by an overwhelming shock or extremefear and marked by rigidity of the muscles. -- Cat`a*plec"tic (#), a.
catapuce: Spurge. [Obs.]
catapult: An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by theancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.
cataract: An opacity of the crystalline lens, or of its capsule, whichprevents the passage of the rays of light and impairs or destroys thesight.
cataractous: Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.
catarrh: An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in whichthere are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity andquality of mucus secreted; as catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of thebladder.
catarrhal: Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of thenature of catarrh.
catarrhine: One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including theOld World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together andturned downward. See Monkey.
catarrhous: Catarrhal. [R.]
catastaltic: Checking evacutions through astringent or styptic qualities.
catastasis: That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which theorator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.
catasterism: A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.The catasterisms of Eratosthenes. Whewell.
catastrophe: A violent and widely extended change in the surface of theearth, as, an elevation or subsidence of some part of it, effected byinternal causes. Whewell.
catastrophic: Of a pertaining to a catastrophe. B. Powell.
catastrophism: The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crusthave been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; --opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.
catastrophist: One who holds the theory or catastrophism.
catawbas: ; sing. Catawba. (Ethnol.) An appalachian tribe of Indianswhich originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and thehead waters of the Santee.
catbird: An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to themocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of otherbirds, but less perfectly. Its note resembles at times the mewing ofa cat.
catboat: A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward aspossible, carring a sail extended by a graff and long boom. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
catcall: A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses toexpress dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrumentfor making such a noise.Upon the rising of the curtain. I was very much surprised with thegreat consort of catcalls which was exhibited. Addison.
catch: Passing opportunities seized; snatches.It has been writ by catches with many intervals. Locke.
catch crop: Any crop grown between the rows of another crop or intermediatebetween two crops in ordinary rotation in point of time. -- Catch"-crop`ping, n.
catch title: A short expressive title used for abbreviated book lists, etc.
catch-basin: A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutterdischarges into a sewer, to oatch bulky matters which would not passreadly throught the sewer. Knight.
catch-meadow: meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the sideof hill.
catchable: Capable of being caught. [R.]
catchdrain: A dich or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surfacewater; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surpluswater.
catcher: The player who stands behind the batsman to catch the ball.
catchfly: A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts,covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere. Thespecies of Silene are examples of the catchfly.
catching: The act of seizing or taking hold of Catching bargain (Law), abargain made with an heir expectant for the purchase of hisexpectancy at an inadequate price. Bouvier.
catchment: A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collectedinto a reservoir.
catchpenny: Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from theignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show.-- n.
catchpoll: A bailiff's assistant.
catchwater: A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.
catchweed: See Cleavers.
catchweight: Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as,to ride catchweight.
catchword: The first word of any page of a book after the first, insertedat the right hand bottom corner of the preceding page for theassistance of the reader. It is seldom used in modern printing.
catchwork: A work or artificial watercourse for throwing water on landsthat lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.
cate: Food. [Obs.] See Cates.
catechetically: In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.
catechetics: The science or practice of instructing by questions andanswers.
catechin: One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white,crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.
catechisation: The act of catechising.
catechiser: One who catechises.
catechismal: Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questionsand answers; catechical.
catechist: One who instructs by question and answer, especially inreligions matters.
catechize: See Catechise.
catechu: A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction andevaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growingin India. It contains a large portion of tannin or tannic acid, andis used in medicine and in the arts. It is also known by the namesterra japonica, cutch, gambier, etc. Ure. Dunglison.
catechuic: Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.
catechumen: One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrinesof Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officiallyrecognized as a Christian, and admitted to instruction preliminary toadmission to full membership in the church.
catechumenate: The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during whichone is a catechumen.
catechumenical: Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenicalinstructions.
catechumenist: A catechumen. Bp. Morton.
categorematic: Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of aword.
categorically: Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirmcategorically.
categoricalness: The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute. A.Marvell.
categorist: One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.Emerson.
categorize: To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.
category: One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge orthought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in asystem; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.The categories or predicaments -- the former a Greek word, the latterits literal translation in the Latin language -- were intended byAristotle and his followers as an enumeration of all things capableof being named; an enumeration by the summa genera i.e., the mostextensive classes into which things could be distributed. J. S. Mill.
catel: Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, orincome."For loss of catel may recovered be, But loss of tyme shendeth us,"quod he. Chaucer.
catelectrode: The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery. Faraday.
catelectrotonic: Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.
catelectrotonus: The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in theregion of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of acurrent of electricity through it.
catena: A chain or series of things connected with each other.I have . . . in no case sought to construct those catenæ of games,which it seems now the fashion of commentators to link together. C.J. Ellicott.
catenary: The curve formed by a rope or chain of uniform density andperfect flexibility, hanging freely between two points of suspension,not in the same vertical line.
catenate: To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain. E. Darwin.
catenation: Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regularor connected series. See Concatenation. Sir T. Browne.
catenulate: Chainlike; -- said both or color marks and of indentations whenarranged like the links of a chain, as on shells, etc.
cater: A provider; a purveyor; a caterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cater-cornered: Diagonal. [Colloq.]
cater-cousin: A remote relation. See Quater-cousin. Shak.
cateran: A Highland robber
caterer: One who caters.The little fowls in the air have God for Their provider and caterer.Shelton.
cateress: A woman who caters. Milton.
caterpillar: The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect;sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, asthe sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars. The truecaterpillars have three pairs of true legs, and several pairs ofabdominal fleshy legs (prolegs) armed with hooks. Some are hairy,others naked. They usually feed on leaves, fruit, and succulentvegetables, being often very destructive, Many of them are popularlycalled worms, as the cutworm, cankerworm, army worm, cotton worm,silkworm.
caterwaul: To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensivenoise. Coleridge.
caterwauling: The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like thecry of cats. Shak.
catery: The place where provisions are deposited. [Obs.]
cates: Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food;delicacies; dainties. Shak.Cates for which Apicius could not pay. Shurchill.Choicest cates and the fiagon's best spilth. R. Browning.
catfall: A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead. Totten.
catfish: A name given in the United States to various species ofsiluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat(Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stonecat (Noturus flavus); the sea cat (Arius felis), etc. This name isalso sometimes applied to the wolf fish. See Bullhrad.
catharine wheel: See catherine wheel.
catharist: One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like thanothers about him; -- applied to persons of various sects. SeeAlbigenses.
catharsis: A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of themouth, bowels, etc.
cathartic: A medicine that promotes alvine discharges; a purge; apurgative of moderate activity.
cathartin: The bitter, purgative principle of senna. It is a glucosidewith the properties of a weak acid; -- called also cathartic acid,and cathartina.
cathay: China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have beenintroduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar namefor North China (Khitai, the country of the Khitans.)Better fifty years of Europe than a cycle of Cathay. Tennyson.
cathead: A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, towhich the anchor is hoisted and secured.
cathedra: The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person inhigh authority. Ex cathedra Etym
cathedral: The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it thebishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.
cathedralic: Cathedral. [R.]
cathedrated: Relating to the chair or office of a teacher. [Obs.]
catheretic: A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and otherexcrescences. Dunglison.
catherine wheel: Same as Rose window and Wheel window. Called also Catherine-wheel window.
catheter: The name of various instruments for passing along mucouscanals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced intothe bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine. Eustachiancatheter. See under Eustachian.-- Prostatic catheter, one adapted for passing an enlarged prostate.
catheterize: To operate on with a catheter. Dunglison.
cathetometer: An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differencesof height; esp. of the differences in the height of the uppersurfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the samecolumn at different times. It consists of a telescopic levelingapparatus (d), which slides up or down a perpendicular metallicstandard very finely graduated (bb). The telescope is raised ordepressed in order to sight the objects or surfaces, and thedifferences in vertical height are thus shown on the graduatedstandard. [Written also kathetometer.]
cathetus: One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, thecatheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides thatinclude the right angle. Barlow.
cathode: The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric currentleaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at whichthe electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negativepole; -- opposed to anode. Faraday. Cathode ray (Phys.), a kind ofray generated at the cathode in a vacuum tube, by the electricaldischarge.
cathodic: A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent course of thenervous infuence. Marshall Hall.
catholical: Catholic. [Obs.]
catholicize: To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.
catholicly: In a catholic manner; generally; universally. Sir L. Cary.
catholicness: The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.
catholicon: A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.
catholicos: The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides atEtchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, andconsecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, andPersia, including the Patriarchs of Constantinople, Jerusalem, andSis.
catilinarian: Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resemblingCatiline's conspiracy.
cation: An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decompositionis evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion. Faraday.
catkin: An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slenderaxis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in thewillow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut,oak, hickory, etc.-- so called from its resemblance to a cat's tail. See Illust. ofAment.
catlike: Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.
catling: A double-edged, sharp-pointed dismembering knife. [Spelt alsocatlin.] Crobb.
catlinite: A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indiansfor their pipes.
cato-cathartic: A remedy that purges by alvine discharges.
catonian: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato theCensor; severe; inflexible.
catopron: See Catopter.
catoptrics: That part of optics which explants the properties and phenomenaof reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected frommirrors or polished bodies; --- formerly caled anacamptics.
catoptromancy: A species of divination, which was perforned by letting down amirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it. Ifhis countenance appeared distorted and ghastly, it was an ill omen;if fresh and healthy, it was favorable.
catpipe: See Catcall.
catskill period: The closing subdivision of the Devonian age in America. Therocks of this period are well developed in the Catskill mountains,and extend south and west under the Carboniferous formation. See theDiagram under Geology.
catso: A base fellow; a rogue; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
catstick: A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat ortipcat. Massinger.
catstitch: To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.
catsup: Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.
cattish: Catlike; feline Drummond.
cattle: Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including alldomestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, andswine. Belted cattle, Black cattle. See under Belted, Black.-- Cattle guard, a trench under a railroad track and alongside acrossing (as of a public highway). It is intended to prevent cattlefrom getting upon the track.-- cattle louse (Zoöl.), any species of louse infecting cattle.There are several species. The Hæmatatopinus eurysternus and H.vituli are common species which suck blood; Trichodectes scalariseats the hair.-- Cattle plague, the rinderpest; called also Russian cattle plague.-- Cattle range, or Cattle run, an open space through which cattlemay run or range. [U. S.] Bartlett.-- Cattle show, an exhibition of domestic animals with prizes forthe encouragement of stock breeding; -- usually accompanied with theexhibition of other agricultural and domestic products and ofimplements.
catty: An East Indian Weight of 11/3 pounds.
caucus: A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of personsbelonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or toselect delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regardingmeasures of party policy; a political primary meeting.This day learned that the caucus club meets, at certain times, in thegarret of Tom Dawes, the adjutant of the Boston regiment. JohnAdams's Diary [Feb. , 1763].
cauda galli: A plume-shaped fossil, supposed to be a seaweed, characteristicof the lower Devonian rocks; as, the cauda galli grit. Gauda galliepoch (Geol.), an epoch at the begining of the Devonian age ineastern America, so named from the characteristic gritty sandstonemarked with impressions of cauda galli. See the Diagram underGeology.
caudad: Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.
caudal: Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-likeappendage.The male widow-bird, remarkable for his caudal plumes. Darwin.Caudal fin (Zoöl.), the terminal fin (or "tail") of a fish.
caudata: See Urodela.
caudex: The sterm of a tree., esp. a sterm without a branch, as of apalm or a tree fern; also, the pernnial rootstock of an herbaceousplant.
caudle: A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of winewith eggs, bread, sugar, and spices.
cauf: A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water. Philips.
caufle: A gung of slaves. Same as Coffle.
caught: f Catch.
caul: The fold of membrane loaded with fat, which covers more or lessof the intestines in mammals; the great omentum See Omentum.The caul serves for warming of the lower belly. Ray.
caulescent: Having a leafy stem.
caulicle: A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in theembryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle.
cauliculus: In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising outof the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to suportthe volutes. See Illust. of Corinthian order, under Corinthian.
cauliflower: An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage of which thecluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.
cauliform: Having the form of a caulis.
cauline: Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis.
caulis: An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bearflowers.
caulk: See Calk.
caulocarpous: Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, asmost trees and shrubs.
caulome: A stem structure or stem axis of a plant, viewed as a whole. --Cau*lom"ic (#), a.
cauma: Great heat, as of the body in fever.
cauponize: To sell wine or victuals. [Obs.] Warburfon.
causable: Capable of being caused.
causal: Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a causeor causes; expressing a cause; causative.Causal propositions are where two propositions are joined by causalwords. Watts.
causality: The faculty of tracing effects to their causes. G. Combe.
causally: According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effectsto causes.
causation: The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effectis produced.The kind of causation by which vision is produced. Whewell.Law of universal causation, the theoretical or asserted law thatevery event or phenomenon results from, or is the sequel of, someprevious event or phenomenon, which being present, the other iscertain to take place.
causationist: One who believes in the law of universal causation.
causative: A word which expresses or suggests a cause.
causatively: In a causative manner.
causator: One who causes. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
cause: A suit or action in court; any legal process by which a partyendeavors to obtain his claim, or what he regards as his right; case;ground of action.
causeful: Having a cause. [Obs.]
causeless: 1. Self-originating; uncreated.
causelessness: The state of being causeless.
causer: One who or that which causes.
causerie: Informal talk or discussion, as about literary matters; lightconversation; chat.
causeuse: A kind of sofa for two person. A tête-a-tête.
causidical: Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense ofsuits.
caustic: A caustic curve or caustic surface.
caustically: In a caustic manner.
causticness: The quality of being caustic; causticity.
cauter: A hot iron for searing or cauterizing. Minsheu.
cauterant: A cauterizing substance.
cauterism: The use or application of a caustic; cautery. Ferrand.
cauterization: The act of searing some morbid part by the application of acautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application.
cautery: A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, orby application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroyanimal tissue.
caution: To give notice of danger to; to warn; to exhort [one] to takeheed.You cautioned me against their charms. Swift.
cautionary block: A block in which two or more trains are permitted to travel,under restrictions imposed by a caution card or the like.
cautioner: A surety or sponsor.
cautionry: Suretyship.
cautious: Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of actswith a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect;wary; watchful; as, a cautious general.Cautious feeling for another's pain. Byron.Be swift to hear; but cautious of your tongue. Watts.
cautiously: In a cautious manner.
cautiousness: The quality of being cautious.
cavalcade: A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous marchof horsemen by way of parade.He brought back war-worn cavalcade to the city. Prescott.
cavalier: A work of more that ordinary heigh, rising from the levelground of a bastion, etc., and overlooking surrounding parts.
cavalierish: Somewhat like a cavalier.
cavalierism: The practice or principles of cavaliers. Sir. W. Scott.
cavalierly: In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arroganty.Junius.
cavalierness: A disdanful manner.
cavally: A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos)
cavalry: That part of military force which serves on horseback.
cavalryman: One of a body of cavalry.
cavatina: Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a songwithout a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously andvaguely used.
cave: To make hollow; to scoop out. [Obs.]The mouldred earth cav'd the banke. Spenser.
caveat: A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to doa certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as, a caveatentered in a probate court to stop the proving of a will or thetaking out of letters of administration, etc. Bouvier.
caveating: Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to theother.
caveator: One who enters a caveat.
cavendish: Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs orcakes. Cut cavendish, the plugs cut into long shreds for smoking.
cavern: A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave.
cavernulous: Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal. Black.
cavetto: A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture.See Illust. of Calumn.
cavicorn: Having hollow horns.
cavicornia: A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on abony process of the front, as the ox.
cavil: To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find faultwithout good reason.You do not well in obstinacy To cavil in the course of this contract.Shak.
caviling: Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. SeeCaptious.His depreciatory and caviling criticism. Lewis.
cavilingly: In a caviling manner.
cavillation: Frivolous or sophistical objection. [Obs.] Hooker.
cavin: A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate theiraproach to a place. Farrow.
cavitary: Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms.
cavo-relievo: Cavo-rilievo.
cavo-rilievo: Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made forthe purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surfacearound.
cavort: To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.[Local slang U. S.]
cavy: A rodent of the genera cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig(Cavia cabaya). Cavies are natives of South America. Water cavy(Zoöl.), The capybara.
caw: To cry like a crow, rook, or raven.Rising and cawing at the gun's report. Shak.
cawk: An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar. [Alsowritten cauk.]
cawker: See Calker.
cawky: Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.
caxon: A kind of wig. [Obs.] Lamb.
caxton: Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer.Hansard.
cay: See Key, a ledge.
cayenne: Cayenne pepper. Cayenne pepper. (a) (Bot.) A species ofcapsicum (C. frutescens) with small and intensely pungent fruit. (b)A very pungent spice made by drying and grinding the fruits or seedsof several species of the genus Capsicum, esp. C. annuum and C.Frutescens; -- Called also red pepper. It is used chiefly as acondiment.
cayman: The south America alligator. See Alligator. [Sometimes writtencaiman.]
cayo: A small island or ledge of rock in the water; a key. [Sp. Am.]
cayugas: ; sing Cayuga. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians formerly inbabitingwestern New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the FiveNations.
cayuse: An Indian pony. [Northw. U. S.]
cc ira: The refrain of a famous song of the French Revolution.
cease: To put a stop to; to bring to an end.But he, her fears to cease Sent down the meek-eyed peace. Milton.Cease, then, this impious rage. Milton
ceaseless: Without pause or end; incessant.
cecidomyia: A genus of small dipterous files, including several veryinjurious species, as the Hessian fly. See Hessian fly.
cecity: Blindness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
cecutiency: Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
cedar: The name of several evergreen trees. The wood is remarkable forits durability and fragrant odor.
cedared: Covered, or furnished with, cedars.
cedarn: Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood. [R.]
cede: To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede afortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.The people must cede to the government some of their natural rights.Jay.
cedilla: A mark placed under the letter c [thus, ç], to show that it isto be sounded like s, as in façade.
cedrat: Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with largefruits, not acid, and having a high perfume.
cedrene: A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar,and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class ofsimilar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper,etc., of which cedrene proper is the type. [Written also cedren.]
cedrine: Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.
cedriret: Same as Coerulignone.
cedry: Of the nature of cedar. [R.]
cedule: A scroll; a writing; a schedule. [Obs.]
ceduous: Fit to be felled. [Obs.] Eyelyn.
ceiling: The inner planking of a vessel. Camp ceiling. See under Camp.-- Ceiling boards, Thin narrow boards used to ceil with.
ceint: A girdle. [Obs.]
ceinture: A cincture, girdle, or belt; -- chiefly used in English as adressmaking term.
celadon: A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of thistint.
celebrant: One who performs a public religious rite; -- appliedparticularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church,as distinguished from his assistants.
celebrated: Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned.Celebrated for the politeness of his manners. Macaulay.
celebration: The act, process, or time of celebrating.His memory deserving a particular celebration. Clarendok.Celebration of Mass is equivalent to offering Mass Cath. Dict.To hasten the celebration of their marriage. Sir P. Sidney.
celebrator: One who celebrates; a praiser. Boyle.
celebrious: Famous. [Obs.] Speed.
celeriac: Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globularroot, which is used for food.
celerity: Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.Time, with all its celerity, moves slowly to him whose wholeemployment is to watch its flight. Johnson.
celery: A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which theblanched leafstalks are used as a salad.
celestialize: To make celestial. [R.]
celestially: In a celestial manner.
celestify: To make like heaven. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
celiac: See Coellac.
celibacy: The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of abachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry. "The celibacy of theclergy." Hallom.
celibate: Unmarried; single; as, a celibate state.
celibatist: One who lives unmarried. [R.]
celidography: A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or onplanets.
cell: A jar of vessel, or a division of a compound vessel, forholding the exciting fluid of a battery.
cella: The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, asdistinguished from the open porticoes.
cellar: A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surfaceof the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.
cellarer: A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who hascharge of procuring and keeping the provisions.
cellaret: A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine orliquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in asideboard, and usually lined with metal.
cellarist: Same as Cellarer.
celled: Containing a cell or cells.
cellepore: A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells,belonging to the Bryozoa.
celliferous: Bearing or producing cells.
cello: A contraction for Violoncello.
cellular: Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cellor cells. Cellular plants, Cellular cryptogams (Bot.), thoseflowerless plants which have no ducts or fiber in their tissue, asmosses, fungi, lichens, and algæ.-- Cellular theory, or Cell theory (Biol.), a theory, according towhich the essential element of every tissue, either vegetable oranimal, is a cell; the whole series of cells having been formed fromthe development of the germ cell and by differentiation convertedinto tissues and organs which, both in plants ans animals, are to beconsidered as a mass of minute cells communicating with each other.-- Cellular tissue. (a) (Anat.) See conjunctive tissue underConjunctive. (b) (Bot.) Tissue composed entirely of parenchyma, andhaving no woody fiber or ducts. cellular telephone, a portable radio-telephone transmitting and receiving the radio-telephonic signalsfrom one of a group of transmitter-receiver stations so arranged thatthey provide adequate signal contact for such telephones over acertain geographical area. The area within which one transmitter mayservice such portable telephones is called its "cell.
cellulated: Cellular. Caldwell.
cellule: A small cell.
celluliferous: Bearing or producing little cells.
cellulitis: An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. ofthat lying immediately beneath the skin.
celluloid: A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, andwhen pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variouslycolored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite, etc. Itis used in the manufacture of jewelry and many small articles, ascombs, brushes, collars, and cuffs; -- originaly called xylonite.
cellulose: Consisting of, or containing, cells.
celotomy: The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure instrangulated hernia. [Frequently written kelotomy.]
celsiture: Height; altitude. [Obs.]
celsius: The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from AndersCelsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it. It is the same as thecentigrade thermometer or scale.
celt: One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited agreat part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants atthe present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, andthe northern shores of France. [Written also Kelt. The letter C waspronounced hard in Celtic languages.]
celtiberian: Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spainlying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants theCeltiberi (Celts of the river Iberus).-- n.
celtic: Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes,literature, tongue. [Written also Keltic.]
celticism: A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language. Warton.
celticize: To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.
celtium: A supposed new element of the rare-earth group, accompanyinglutecium and scandium in the gadolinite earths. Symbol, Ct (noperiod).
cembalo: An old mname for the harpsichord.
cement: The layer of bone investing the root and neck of a tooth; --called also cementum. Hydraulic cement. See under Hydraulic.
cement steel: Steel produced by cementation; blister steel.
cemental: Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.R. Owen.
cementation: A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with thepowder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree notsufficient to cause fusion, the physical properties of the body beingchanged by chemical combination with powder; thus iron becomes steelby cementation with charcoal, and green glass becomes porcelain bycementation with sand.
cementatory: Having the quality of cementating or uniting firmly.
cementer: A person or thing that cements.
cementitious: Of the nature of cement. [R.] Forsyth.
cemeterial: Of or pertaining to a cemetery. "Cemeterial cells." [R.] Sir T.Browne.
cemetery: A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; agraveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.
cenanthy: The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens andpistil) in a flower.
cenation: Meal-taking; dining or supping. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
cenatory: Of or pertaining to dinner or supper. [R.]The Romans washed, were anointed, and wore a cenatory garment. Sir T.Browne.
cenobite: One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or acommunity, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives insolitude. Gibbon.
cenobitism: The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of acenobite. Milman.
cenogamy: The state of a communty which permits promiseuous sexualintercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicingcommunism.
cenotaph: An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who isburied elsewhere. Dryden.A cenotaph in Westminster Abbey. Macaulay.
cenotaphy: A cenotaph. [R.]Lord Cobham honored him with a cenotaphy. Macaulay.
cenozoic: Belonging to the most recent division of geological time,including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Ageof man. [Written also cænozoic, cainozoic, kainozoic.] See Geology.
cense: To perfume with odors from burning gums and spices.The Salii sing and cense his altars round. Dryden.
censer: A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.
censor: One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of thenumber and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office ofinspector of morals and conduct.
censorian: Censorial. [R.] Bacon.
censorship: The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.Holland.The press was not indeed at that moment under a general censorship.Macaulay.
censual: Relating to, or containing, a census.He caused the whole realm to be described in a censual roll. Sir R.Baker.
censurable: Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, acensurable person, or censurable conduct.-- Cen"sur*a*bleness, n.-- Cen"sur*a*bly, adv.
censure: To judge. [Obs.] Shak.
censurer: One who censures. Sha.
census: A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, forthe purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in fiveyears.
centage: Rate by the hundred; percentage.
cental: A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in manyparts of the United States a Hundredweight.
centare: A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one squaremeter, or about 1
centaur: A fabulous being, represented as half man and half horse.
centaurea: A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles andincluding the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and thestar thistle (C. Calcitrapa).
centauromachy: A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme forrelief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes.
centaury: A gentianaceous plant not fully identified. The name is usuallygiven to the Erytheræa Centaurium and the Chlora perfoliata ofEurope, but is also extended to the whole genus Sabbatia, and even tothe unrelated Centaurea.
centenarian: Of or relating to a hundred years.-- n.
centennial: The celebration of the hundredth anniversary of any event; acentenary. [U. S.]
centennial state: Colorado; -- a nickname alluding to the fact that it wasadmitted to the Union in the centennial year, 1876.
centennially: Once in a hundred years.
center: A temporary structure upon which the materials of a vault orarch are supported in position util the work becomes self-supporting.
centerfire cartridge: See under Cartridge.
centering: Same as Center, n., 6. [Written also centring.]
centesimal: Hundredth.-- n.
centesimation: The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in everyhundred, as in cases of mutiny.
centesimo: A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.
centesm: Hundredth.
centiare: See centare.
centicipitous: Hundred-headed.
centifidous: Divided into a hundred parts.
centifolious: Having a hundred leaves.
centigrade: Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundreddivisions or equal parts. Spesifically
centiloquy: A work divided into a hundred parts. [R.] Burton.
centime: The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin andmoney of account.
centinel: Sentinel. [Obs.] Sackville.
centinody: A weed with a sterm of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum);also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.
centiped: A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomouskinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they aremany-jointed, and have a great number of feet. [Written alsocentipede (
centistere: The hundredth part of a stere, equal to .353 cubic feet.
centner: A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then intosmaller parts.
cento: A literary or a musical composition formed by selections fromdifferent authors disposed in a new order.
centonism: The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing acento or centos.
central: Relating to the center; situated in or near the center ormiddle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near thecenter; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.Central force (Math.), a force acting upon a body towards or awayfrom a fixed or movable center.-- Center sun (Astron.), a name given to a hypothetical body aboutwhich Mädler supposed the solar system together with all the stars inthe Milky Way, to be revolving. A point near Alcyone in the Pleiadeswas supposed to possess characteristics of the position of such abody.
centrality: The state of being central; tendency towards a center.Meantime there is a great centrality, a centripetence equal to thecentrifugence. R. W. Emerson.
centralization: The act or process of centralizing, or the state of beingcentralized; the act or process of combining or reducing severalparts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the generalgovernment; the centralization of commerce in a city.
centralize: To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about acenter; to bring into one system, or under one control.[To] centralize the power of government. Bancroft.
centrally: In a central manner or situation.
centre: See Center.
centricity: The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.
centrifugal: A centrifugal machine.
centrifugal filter: A filter, as for sugar, in which a cylinder with a porous orforaminous periphery is rapidly rotated so as to drive off liquid bycentrifugal action.
centrifugence: The property or quality of being centrifugal. R. W. Emerson.
centring: See Centring.
centripetence: Centripetency.
centripetency: Tendency toward the center.
centriscoid: Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which thebellows fish is an example.
centrobaric: Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of findingit. Centrobaric method (Math.), a process invented for the purpose ofmeasuring the area or the volume generated by the rotation of a lineor surface about a fixed axis, depending upon the principle thatevery figure formed by the revolution of a line or surface about suchan axis has for measure the product of the line or surface by thelength of the path of its center of gravity; -- sometimes calledtheorem of Pappus, also, incorrectly, Guldinus's properties. SeeBarycentric calculus, under Calculus.
centrode: In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curveswhich are the loci of the instantaneous center.
centroid: The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system ofbodies.
centrolecithal: Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum,segmentation being either regular or unequal. Balfour.
centrolinead: An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or linesconverging to a center.
centrolineal: Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meetin a point or center.
centrosome: A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell. It isregarded as the dynamic element by means of which the machinery ofcell division is organized.
centrosphere: The nucleus or central part of the earth, forming most of itsmass; -- disting. from lithosphere, hydrosphere, etc.
centrostaltic: A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinalcenter. Marshall Hall.
centrum: The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.
centry: See Sentry. [Obs.] Gray.
centumvir: One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civilsuits. Under the empire the court was increased to 180, and metusually in four sections.
centumviral: Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.
centumvirate: The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.
centuple: Hundredfold.
centuplicate: To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times. [R.] Howell.
centurial: Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon. [R.]
centuriate: Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds. [R.]Holland.
centurion: A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Romanarmy; a captain of a century.A centurion of the hand called the Italian band. Acts x. 1.
ceorl: A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of theservile classes; a churl.
cepaceous: Of the nature of an onion, as in odor; alliaceous.
cepevorous: Feeding upon onions. [R.] Sterling.
cephalad: Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body;opposed to caudad.
cephalalgic: Relating to, or affected with, headache.-- n.
cephalanthium: Same as Anthodium.
cephalaspis: A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstoneor Devonian formation. The head is large, and protected by a broadshield-shaped helmet prolonged behind into two lateral points.
cephalata: A large division of Mollusca, including all except thebivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
cephalate: Having a head.
cephalic: Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.Cephalic index (Anat.), the ratio of the breadth of the cranium tothe length, which is taken as the standard, and equal to 100; thebreadth index.-- Cephalic vein, a large vein running from the back of the headalond the arm; -- so named because the ancients used to open it fordisorders of the head. Dunglison.
cephalism: Form or development of the skull; as, the races of man differgreatly in cephalism.
cephalitis: Same as Phrenitis.
cephalization: Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in thephysical structure; localization of important organs or parts in ornear the head, in animal development. Dana.
cephalocercal: Relating to the long axis of the body.
cephaloid: Shaped like the head. Craing.
cephalology: The science which treats of the head.
cephalomere: One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head ofarthropods. Packard.
cephalometer: An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetusduring delivery.
cephalometry: The measurement of the heads of living persons. --Ceph`a*lo*met"ric (#),a.
cephalon: The head.
cephalophora: The cephalata.
cephalopoda: The highest class of Mollusca.
cephaloptera: One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris),known as devilfish and sea devil. It is common on the coasts of SouthCarolina, Florida, and farther south. Some of them grow to enormoussize, becoming twenty feet of more across the body, and weighing morethan a ton.
cephalosome: The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods.Packard.
cephalostyle: The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in thebase of cartilaginous crania.
cephalothorax: The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higherCrustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.
cephalotome: An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitatedelivery.
cephalotomy: Craniotomy; -- usually applied to bisection of the fetal headwith a saw.
cephalotribe: An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy.
cephalotripsy: The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in thewomb in order to effect delivery.
cephalotrocha: A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head.
cephalous: Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a divisionof mollusks.
cepheus: (Astron.) A northern constellation near the pole. Its head,which is in the Milky Way, is marked by a triangle formed by threestars of the fourth magnitude. See Cassiopeia.
ceraceous: Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy.
cerago: Beebread.
ceramic: Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of makingearthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings.
ceramics: Work formed of clay in whole or in part, and baked; as, vases,urns, etc. Knight.
cerargyrite: Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow orgray color, darkening on exposure to the light. It may be cut by aknife, like lead or horn (hence called horn silver).
cerasin: A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum;-- called also meta-arabinic acid.
cerastes: A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale overeach eye; the horned viper.
cerate: An unctuous preparation for external application, of aconsistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster,so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but doesnot melt when applied to the skin.
cerated: Covered with wax.
ceratine: Sophistical.
ceratobranchia: A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the backpapilliform or branched organs serving as gills.
ceratobranchial: Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial ina branchial arch.-- n.
ceratodus: A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known asMesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have beendiscovered in Australian rivers. They have lungs so well developedthat they can leave the water and breathe in air. In Australia theyare called salmon and baramunda. See Dipnoi, and Archipterygium.
ceratohyal: Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal inthe hyoid arch.-- n.
ceratosaurus: A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the EuropeanMegalosaurus. The animal was nearly twenty feet in length, and theskull bears a bony horn core on the united nasal bones. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
ceratospongiae: An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of hornyfibers. It includes all the commercial sponges.
ceraunics: That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity. R.Park.
ceraunoscope: An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries toimitate thunder and lightning. T. Moore.
cerberean: Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus. [Written alsoCerberian.]With wide Cerberean mouth. Milton.
cerberus: A monster, in the shape, of a three-headed dog, guarding theentrance into the infernal regions, Hence
cercal: Of or pertaining to the tail.
cercaria: The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of atadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.
cercarian: Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariæ.-- n.
cercopod: One of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posteriorsomites of cartain insects. Packard.
cercus: See Cercopod.
cere: The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey,parrots, and some other birds. See Beak.
cereal: Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for theiredible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds orgrain.
cerealia: Public festivals in honor of Ceres.
cerealin: A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtainedfrom bran, and possessing the power of converting starch intodextrin, sugar, and lactic acid. Watts.
cerebel: The cerebellum. Derham.
cerebellum: The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above themedulla; the little brain. It controls combined muscular action. SeeBrain.
cerebral: Of or pertaining to the cerebrum. Cerebral apoplexy. See underApoplexy.
cerebralism: The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functionsor products of the brain only.
cerebralist: One who accepts cerebralism.
cerebrate: To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.
cerebration: Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.
cerebric: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain. Cerebric acid(Physiol. Chem.), a name formerly sometimes given to cerebrin.
cerebricity: Brain power. [R.]
cerebriform: Like the brain in form or substance.
cerebrifugal: Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to thespinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugalimpressions) outwards.
cerebrin: A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brainand nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol. It is uncertainwhether it exists as such in nerve tissue, or is a product of thedecomposition of some more complex substance.
cerebripetal: Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord tothe brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) fromthe exterior inwards.
cerebritis: Inflammation of the cerebrum.
cerebro-spinal: Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting ofthe brain and spinal cord. Cerebro-spinal fluid (Physiol.), a serousfluid secreted by the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord.-- Cerebro-spinal meningitis, Cerebro-spinal fever (Med.), adangerous epidemic, and endemic, febrile disease, characterized byinflammation of the membranes of the brain and spinal cord, givingrise to severe headaches, tenderness of the back of the neck,paralysis of the ocular muscles, etc. It is sometimes marked by acutaneous eruption, when it is often called spotted fever. It is notcontagious.
cerebroid: Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.
cerebrology: The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.
cerebropathy: A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring inthose whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.
cerebroscopy: Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of diseas; esp., theact or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain byexamination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).Buck.
cerebrose: A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of thenitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.
cerebrum: The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; theseat of the reasoning faculties and the will. See Brain.
cerecloth: A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy orglutinous matter.Linen, besmeared with gums, in manner of cerecloth. Bacon.
ceremonialism: Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.
ceremonially: According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremoniallyunclean.
ceremonialness: Quality of being ceremonial.
ceremoniously: In a ceremonious way.
ceremoniousness: The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.
cereous: Waxen; like wax. [Obs.] Gayton.
ceres: The daughter of Saturn and Ops or Rhea, the goddess of corn andtillage.
ceresin: A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, andused as a substitute for beeswax.
cereus: A genus of plants of the Cactus family. They are natives ofAmerica, from California to Chili.
cerevis: A small visorless cap, worn by members of German student corps.It is made in the corps colors, and usually bears the insignia of thecorps.
ceria: Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constitutingabout one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle.
cerial: Same as Cerial. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ceriferous: Producing wax.
cerin: A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork;sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble inalcohol. Watts.
cerinthian: One of an ancient religious sect, so called fron Cerinthus, aJew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinionsof the Jews and Gnostics. Hook.
ceriph: One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine crossstrokes at the top and bottom of letters. [Spelt also seriph.]Savage.
cerise: Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textilefabrics, especially silk.
cerite: A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiïdæ; -- socalled from its hornlike form.
cerium: A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite,allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce. Atomic weight 141.5. It resemblesiron in color and luster, but is soft, and both malleable andductile. It tarnishes readily in the air.
cernuous: Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said ofa bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.
cero: A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genusScomberomorus. Two species are found in the West Indies and lesscommonly on the Atlantic coast of the United States, -- the commoncero (Scomberomorus caballa), called also kingfish, and spotted, orking, cero (S. regalis).
cerograph: A writing on wax. Knight.
cerographist: One who practices cerography.
cerolite: A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine,occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.
ceroma: That part of the baths and gymnasia in which bathers andwrestlers anointed themselves.
ceromancy: Divination by dropping melted wax in water.
ceroon: A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound withhide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.
ceroplastic: The art of modeling in wax.
cerosin: A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, andcrystallizing in delicate white laminæ.
cerote: See Cerate.
cerotene: A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by thedistillation of cerotin.
cerotic: Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as,cerotic acid or alcohol.
cerotin: A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinesewax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- calledalso cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.
cerotype: A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on asteel plate, for electrotyping.
cerrial: Of or pertaining to the cerris.Chaplets green of cerrial oak. Dryden.
cerris: A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient andsouthern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.
certain: Certainly. [Obs.] Milton.
certainly: Without doubt or question; unquestionably.
certainness: Certainty.
certainty: Clearness; freedom from ambiguity; lucidity. Of a certainty,certainly.
certes: Certainly; in truth; verily. [Archaic]Certes it great pity was to see Him his nobility so foul deface.Spenser.
certification: The act of certifying.
certifier: One who certifies or assures.
certiorari: A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call upthe records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending,in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice, orthat errors and irreguarities may be corrected. It is obtained uponcomplaint of a party that he has not received justice, or can nothave an impartial trial in the inferior court.
certitude: Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty. J. H. Newman.
cerule: Blue; cerulean. [Obs.] Dyer.
cerulean: Sky-colored; blue; azure. Cowper.Blue, blue, as if that sky let fallA flower from its cerulean wall. Bryant.
cerulein: A fast dyestuff, C20H8O6, made by heating gallein with strongsulphuric acid. It dyes mordanted fabrics green.
ceruleous: Cerulean. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
cerulescent: Tending to cerulean; light bluish.
ceruleum: A greenish blue pigment prepared in various ways, consistingessentially of cobalt stannate. Unlike other cobalt blues, it doesnot change color by gaslight.
cerulific: Producing a blue or sky color. [R.]
cerumen: The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the externalear; the earwax.
ceruminous: Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminousglands.
ceruse: The native carbonate of lead.
cerused: Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.Beau. & Fl.
cervantite: See under Antimony.
cervelat: An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.
cervical: Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebræ.
cervicide: The act of killing deer; deer-slaying. [R.]
cervine: Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidæ.
cervix: The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of thewomb. See Illust. of Bird.
cervus: A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other alliedspecies.
ceryl: A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compoundsobtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.
cesarism: See Cæsarism.
cespitine: An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing variousmembers of the pyridine series.
cespititious: Same as Cespitious. [R.] Gough.
cespitose: Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from onerootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots. [Written alsocæspitose.]
cespitous: Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.A cespitous or turfy plant has many stems from the same root, usuallyforming a close, thick carpet of matting. Martyn.
cess: To rate; to tax; to assess. Spenser.
cessant: Inactive; dormant [Obs.] W. Montagu.
cessation: A ceasing of discontinuance, as of action, whether termporaryor final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.The temporary cessation of the papal iniquities. Motley.The day was yearly observed for a festival by cessation from labor.Sir J. Hayward.Cessation of arms (Mil.), an armistice, or truce, agreed to by thecommanders of armies, to give time for a capitulation, or for otherpurposes.
cessavit: A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant hasfor two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.
cesser: a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, fortwo years.
cessible: Giving way; yielding. [Obs.] -- Ces`si*bil"i*ty, n. [Obs.] SirK. Digby.
cession: The giving up or vacating a benefice by accepting anotherwithout a proper dispensation.
cessionary: Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.Martin.
cessment: An assessment or tax. [Obs.] Johnson.
cessor: One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service bywhich he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ ofcessavit. See Cessavit. Cowell.
cesspipe: A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink orcesspool. Knight.
cesspool: A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, tocollect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; anyreceptace of filth. [Written also sesspool.]
cest: A woman's girdle; a cestus. [R.] Collins.
cestode: Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.-- n.
cestoid: Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea.-- n.
cestoidea: A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which thetapeworms are the most common examples. The body is flattened, andusually but not always long, and composed of numerous joints orsegments, each of which may contain a complete set of male and femalereproductive organs. They have neither mouth nor intestine. SeeTapeworm. [Written also Cestoda.]
cestoldean: One of the Cestoidea.
cestraciont: A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera. Theposterior teeth form a pavement of bony plates for crushingshellfish. Most of the species are extinct. The Port Jackson sharkand a similar one found in California are living examples.
cestus: A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gavethe wearer the power of exciting love.
cesura: See Cæsura.
cesural: See Cæsural.
cetacea: An order of marine mammals, including the whales. Like ordinarymammals they breathe by means of lungs, and bring forth living youngwhich they suckle for some time. The anterior limbs are changed topaddles; the tail flukes are horizontal. There are two livingsuborders
cetacean: One of the Cetacea.
cetaceous: Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.
cete: One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.
cetene: An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtainedfrom spermaceti.
ceterach: A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).
cetewale: Same as Zedoary. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cetic: Of or pertaining to a whale.
cetin: A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part ofspermaceti.
cetological: Of or pertaining to cetology.
cetologist: One versed in cetology.
cetology: The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.
cetraric: Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss(Cetaria Islandica). Cetraric acid. See Cetrarin.
cetrarin: A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss(Cetraria Islandica). It consists of several ingredients, among whichis cetraric acid, a white, crystalline, bitter substance.
cetyl: A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in aseries of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derivedfrom spermaceti.
cetylic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti. Cetylic alcohol(Chem.), a white, waxy, crystalline solid, obtained from spermaceti,and regarded as homologous with ordinary, or ethyl, alcohol; ethal; -- called also cetyl alcohol.
ceylanite: A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel. It is alsocalled pleonaste. [Written also ceylonite.]
ceylonese: Of or pertaining to Ceylon.-- n. sing. & pl.
cha: Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in earlyworks of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in CentralAsia.
chab: The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).
chablis: A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.
chace: See 3d Chase, n., 3.
chachalaca: The texan guan (Ortalis vetula). [written also chiacalaca.]
chacma: A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); --called also ursine baboon.
chaconne: An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like thePassacaglia, which is slower. Both are used by classical composers asthemes for variations.
chad: See Shad. [Obs.]
chaetetes: A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurianlimestones.
chaetiferous: Bearing setæ.
chaetodont: A marine fish of the family Chætodontidæ. The chætodonts havebroad, compressed bodies, and usually bright colors.
chaetognath: Of or pertaining to the Chætognatha.
chaetognatha: An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genusSagitta is the type. They have groups of curved spines on each sideof the head.
chaetopod: Pertaining to the Chætopoda.-- n.
chaetopoda: A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by thepresence of lateral setæ, or spines, on most or all of the segments.They are divided into two principal groups
chaetotaxy: The arrangement of bristles on an insect.
chafe: To rub; to come together so as to wear by rubbing; to wear byfriction.Made its great boughs chafe together. Longfellow.The troubled Tiber chafing with her shores. Shak.
chafer: A kind of beetle; the cockchafer. The name is also applied toother species; as, the rose chafer.
chafery: An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated beforebeing wrought into bars.
chafeweed: The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.
chaff: The scales or bracts on the receptacle, which subtend eachflower in the heads of many Compositæ, as the sunflower. Gray. Chaffcutter, a machine for cutting, up straw, etc., into "chaff" for theuse of cattle.
chaffer: One who chaffs.
chafferer: One who chaffers; a bargainer.
chaffern: A vessel for heating water. [Obs.] Johnson.
chaffery: Traffic; bargaining. [Obs.] Spenser.
chaffinch: A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of verysweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copperfinch.
chaffing: The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule;raillery; banter.
chaffless: Without chaff.
chafing: The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.Chafing dish, a dish or vessel for cooking on the table, or forkeeping food warm, either by coals, by a lamp, or by hot water; aportable grate for coals.-- Chafing gear (Naut.), any material used to protect sails,rigging, or the like, at points where they are exposed to friction.
chagreen: See Shagreen.
chagres fever: A form of malarial fever occurring along the Chagres River,Panama.
chagrin: Vexation; mortification.I must own that I felt rather vexation and chagrin than hope andsatisfaction. Richard Porson.Hear me, and touch Belinda with chagrin. Pope.
chain: An instrument which consists of links and is used in measuringland.
chain pump: A pump consisting of an endless chain, running over a drum orwheel by which it is moved, and dipping below the water to be raised.The chain has at intervals disks or lifts which fit the tube throughwhich the ascending part passes and carry the water to the point ofdischarge.
chain stitch: A stitch in which the looping of the thread or threads forms achain on the under side of the work; the loop stitch, asdistinguished from the lock stitch. See Stitch.
chain tie: A tie consisting of a series of connected iron bars or rods.
chainless: Having no chain; not restrained or fettered. "The chainlessmind." Byron.
chainlet: A small chain. Sir W. Scott.
chainwork: Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitchwork.
chairmanship: The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.
chaise: a carriage in general. Cowper.
chaja: The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna,chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called alsochauna, and faithful kamichi. It is often domesticated and is usefulin guarding other poultry. See Kamichi.
chak: To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid therestraint of the bridle.
chalaza: The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats coherewith each other and the nucleus.
chalazal: Of or pertaining to the chalaza.
chalaze: Same as Chalaza.
chalaziferous: Having or bearing chalazas.
chalazion: A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retentionof secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.
chalazogamy: A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates tothe embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of enteringthrough the micropyle. It was originally discovered by Treub inCasuarina, and has since been found to occur regularly in thefamilies Betulaceæ and Juglandaceæ. Partial chalazogamy is found inUlmus, the tube here penetrating the nucleus midway between thechalaza and micropyle. --Chal`a*zo*gam"ic (#), a.
chalcanthite: Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.
chalcedonic: Of or pertaining to chalcedony.
chalcedony: A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, havingusually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax. [Written alsocalcedony.]
chalchihuitl: The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.
chalcid fly: One of a numerous family of hymenopterous insects (Chalcididæ.Many are gallflies, others are parasitic on insects.
chalcidian: One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidæ),having four small or rudimentary legs.
chalcocite: Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreouscopper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster. [Formerlywritten chalcosine.]
chalcography: The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially ofengraving for printing.
chalcopyrite: Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper,containing copper, iron, and sulphur. It occurs massive and intetragonal crystals of a bright brass yellow color.
chaldaic: Of or pertaining to Chaldes.-- n.
chaldaism: An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.
chaldean: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.-- n.(a) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.(b) A learned man, esp. an astrologer; -- so called among the Easternnations, because astrology and the kindred arts were much cultivatedby the Chaldeans.(c) Nestorian.
chaldee: Of or pertaining to Chaldea.-- n.
chaldron: An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up,or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle.Now used exlusively for coal and coke.
chalice: A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of theLord's Supper.
chaliced: Having a calyx or cup; cupshaped. "Chaliced flowers." Shak.
chalk: A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowishwhite color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the samecomposition as common limestone.
chalkcutter: A man who digs chalk.
chalkiness: The state of being chalky.
chalkstone: A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium,found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and inother situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.
chalky: Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, achalky cliff; a chalky taste.
challenge: The opening and crying of hounds at first finding the scent oftheir game.
challengeable: That may be challenged.
challenger: One who challenges.
challis: A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, forladies' dresses. [Written also chally.]
chalon: A bed blanket. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chalybeate: Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as,chalybeate springs.
chalybeous: Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.
chalybite: Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.
cham: To chew. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Sir T. More.
chamade: A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.They beat the chamade, and sent us carte blanche. Addison.
chamal: The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.
chamber: Apartments in a lodging house. "A bachelor's life in chambers."Thackeray.
chambered: Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; achambered gun.
chambering: Lewdness. [Obs.] Rom. xiii. 13.
chamberlainship: Office if a chamberlain.
chambertin: A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.
chambranle: An ornamental bordering or framelike decoration around thesides and top of a door, window, or fireplace. The top piece iscalled the traverse and the side pieces the ascendants.
chambray: A gingham woven in plain colors with linen finish.
chambrel: Same as Gambrel.
chameck: A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbsrudimentary and without a nail.
chameleon: A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamæleo, of several species,found in Africa, Asia, and Europe. The skin is covered with finegranmulations; the tail is prehensile, and the body is muchcompressed laterally, giving it a high back.
chameleonize: To change into various colors. [R.]
chamfer: The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formedby two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.
chamfret: A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.
chamfron: The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse. [Written alsochampfrain and chamfrain.]
chamisal: A California rosaceous shrub (Adenostoma fasciculatum) whichoften forms an impenetrable chaparral.
chamlet: See Camlet. [Obs.]
chamois: A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on theloftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. Itpossesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.
chamomile: See Camomile.
champ: To bite or chew impatiently.They began . . . irefully to champ upon the bit. Hooker.
champagne: A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the provinceof Champagne, in France.
champaign: A flat, open country.Fair champaign, with less rivers interveined. Milton.Through Apline vale or champaign wide. Wordsworth.
champer: One who champs, or bites.
champertor: One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the rightof suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain ashare of the gain.
champerty: The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishingmoney or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concerntherein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, inthe event of success, a share of the matter in suit; maintenance withthe addition of an agreement to divide the thing in suit. SeeMaintenance.
champignon: An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris). Fairy ringchampignon, the Marasmius oreades, which has a strong flavor but isedible.
championness: A female champion. Fairfax.
championship: State of being champion; leadership; supremancy.
champlain period: A subdivision of the Quaternary age immediately following theGlacial period; -- so named from beds near Lake Champlain.
champleve: Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to beenameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kindof enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filledwith enamel pastes, which are afterward fired; also, designating theprocess  of making such enamel work. --n.
chamsin: See Kamsin.
chance: Probability.
chance-medley: The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden andunpremeditated encounter. See Chaud-Medley.
chanceable: Fortuitous; casual. [Obs.]
chanceably: By chance. [Obs.]
chanceful: Hazardous. [Obs.] Spenser.
chancellery: Chancellorship. [Obs.] Gower.
chancellor: A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in theUnited States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.
chancellorship: The office of a chancellor; the time during which one ischancellor.
chancre: A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion oftrue syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- calledalso hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre. Softchancre. A chancroid. See Chancroid.
chancroid: A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and someexternal characters, but differing from it in being the startingpoint of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; --called also soft chancre.
chancrous: Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.
chandelier: A movable parapet, serving to support fascines to coverpioneers. [Obs.]
chandlerly: Like a chandler; in a petty way. [Obs.] Milton.
chandlery: Commodities sold by a chandler.
chandoo: An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India forsmoking. Balfour.
chandry: Chandlery. [Obs.] "Torches from the chandry." B. Jonson.
chanfrin: The fore part of a horse's head.
change: A place where merchants and others meet to transact business; abuilding appropriated for mercantile transactions. [Colloq. forExchange.]
change gear: A gear by means of which the speed of machinery or of a vehiclemay be changed while that of the propelling engine or motor remainsconstant; -- called also change-speed gear.
change key: A key adapted to open only one of a set of locks; --distinguished from a master key.
changeability: Changeableness.
changeableness: The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy;mutability.
changeably: In a changeable manner.
changeful: Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain. Pope.His course had been changeful. Motley.-- Change"ful*ly, adv.-- Change"ful*ness, n.
changeless: That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose.-- Change"less*ness, n.
chank: The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of severalspecies of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinellapyrum. Called also chank chell.
channel: A strait, or narrow sea, between two portions of lands; as, theBritish Channel.
chanson: A song. Shak.
chanson de geste: Any Old French epic poem having for its subject events orexploits of early French history, real or legendary, and writtenoriginally in assonant verse of ten or twelve syllables. The mostfamous one is the Chanson de Roland.
chansonnette: A little song.These pretty little chansonnettes that he sung. Black.
chant: To sing or recite after the manner of a chant, or to a tunecalled a chant.
chantant: Composed in a melodious and singing style.
chanter: The hedge sparrow.
chanterelle: A name for several species of mushroom, of which one(Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous.
chantey: A sailor's song.
chanticleer: A cock, so called from the clearness or loundness of his voicein crowing.
chanting: Singing, esp. as a chant is sung. Chanting falcon (Zoöl.), anAfrican falcon (Melierax canorus or musicus). The male has the habit,remarkable in a bird of prey, of singing to his mate, while she isincubating.
chantor: A chanter.
chantress: A female chanter or singer. Milton.
chaomancy: Divination by means of apperances in the air.
chaotic: Resembling chaos; confused.
chaotically: In a chaotic manner.
chap: To bargain; to buy. [Obs.]
chaparajos: Overalls of sheepskin or leather, usually open at the back,worn, esp. by cowboys, to protect the legs from thorny bushes, as inthe chaparral; -- called also chapareras or colloq. chaps. [Sp.Amer.]
chapareras: Same as Chaparajos. [Sp. Amer.]
chapbook: Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers.Hence, any small book; a toy book.
chapeau: A cap of maintenance. See Maintenance. Chapeau bras ( Etym
chaped: Furnished with a chape or chapes. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chapel: To cause (a ship taken aback in a light breeze) so to turn ormake a circuit as to recover, without bracing the yards, the sametack on which she had been sailing.
chapeless: Without a chape.
chapellany: A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinateecclesiastical foundation.
chapelry: The territorial disrict legally assigned to a chapel.
chaperon: To attend in public places as a guide and protector; tomatronize.Fortunately Lady Bell Finley, whom I had promised to chaperon, sentto excuse herself. Hannah More.
chaperonage: Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protectionafforded by a chaperon.
chapfallen: Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication ofhumiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged. See Chopfallen.
chapiter: A capital [Obs.] See Chapital. Ex. xxxvi. 38.
chaplaincy: The office, position, or station of a chaplain. Swift.
chapless: Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless. [R.] "Yellow, chaplessskulls." Shak.
chaplet: A small molding, carved into beads, pearls, olives, etc.
chappy: Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.
chaps: The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap. "Open yourchaps again." Shak.
chaptrel: An impost. [Obs.]
char: A car; a chariot. [Obs.] Chaucer.
char-a-banc: A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats runninglengthwise.
chara: A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems andwhorled branches. They flourish in wet places.
charact: A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. [Obs.] SeeCharacter.In all his dressings, characts, titles, forms. Shak.
characterism: A distinction of character; a characteristic. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
characteristic: Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showingthe character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person orthing; peculiar; distinctive.Characteristic clearness of temper. Macaulay.
characteristical: Characteristic.
characteristically: In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.
characterization: The act or process of characterizing.
characterless: Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character orforce.
charade: A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two ormore significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as theword itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions orrepresentations.
charbocle: Carbuncle. [Written also Charboncle.] [Obs.] Chaucer.
charbon: A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of thecorner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has becomeobliterated.
charcoal: Finely prepared charcoal in small sticks, used as a drawingimplement. Animal charcoal, a fine charcoal prepared by calciningbones in a closed vessel; -- used as a filtering agent in sugarrefining, and as an absorbent and disinfectant.-- Charcoal blacks, the black pigment, consisting of burnt ivory,bone, cock, peach stones, and other substances.-- Charcoal drawing (Fine Arts), a drawing made with charcoal. SeeCharcoal, 2. Until within a few years this material has been usedalmost exclusively for preliminary outline, etc., but at present manyfinished drawings are made with it.-- Charcoal point, a carbon pencil prepared for use un an electriclight apparatus.-- Mineral charcoal, a term applied to silky fibrous layers ofcharcoal, interlaminated in beds of ordinary bituminous coal; --known to miners as mother of coal.
chare: A narrow street. [Prov. Eng.]
charge: To assume as a bearing; as, he charges three roses or; to addto or represent on; as, he charges his shield with three roses or.
chargeableness: The quality of being chargeable or expensive. [Obs.]Whitelocke.
chargeably: At great cost; expensively. [Obs.]
chargeant: Burdensome; troublesome. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chargeful: Costly; expensive. [Obs.]The fineness of the gold and chargeful fashion. Shak.
chargehouse: A schoolhouse. [Obs.]
chargeless: Free from, or with little, charge.
chargeous: Burdensome. [Obs.]I was chargeous to no man. Wyclif, (2 Cor. xi. 9).
chargeship: The office of a chargé d'affaires.
charily: In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.
chariness: The quality of being chary.
chariot: A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, stateprocessions, etc.First moved the chariots, after whom the foot. Cowper.
chariotee: A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with twoseats.
charioteer: A constellation. See Auriga, and Wagones.
charism: A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreignlanguages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the earlyChristians.
charismatic: Of or pertaining to a charism.
charitableness: The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.
charitably: In a charitable manner.
charity: Defn:Now abideth faith, hope, charity, three; but the greatest of these ischarity. 1. Cor. xiii. 13.They, at least, are little to be envied, in whose hearts the greatcharities . . . lie dead. Ruskin.With malice towards none, with charity for all. Lincoln.
charivari: A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tinhorns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.
chark: Charcoal; a cinder. [Obs.] DeFoe.
charlatan: One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantablepretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.
charlatanism: Charlatanry.
charlatanry: Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.
charlock: A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers;wild mustard. It is troublesome in grain fields. Called alsochardock, chardlock, chedlock, and kedlock. Jointed charlock, Whitecharlock, a troublesome weed (Raphanus Raphanistrum) with straw-colored, whitish, or purplish flowers, and jointed pods
charlotte: A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices ofbread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked. CharlotteRusse (, or Charlotte à la russe Etym
charmel: A fruitful field.Libanus shall be turned into charmel, and charmel shall be esteemedas a forest. Isa. xxix. 17 (Douay version).
charmeress: An enchantress. Chaucer.
charmful: Abounding with charms. "His charmful lyre." Cowley.
charming: Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting;fascinating; attractive.How charming is divine philosophy. Milton.
charmless: Destitute of charms. Swift.
charnel: Containing the bodies of the dead. "Charnel vaults." Milton.Charnel house, a tomb, vault, cemetery, or other place where thebones of the dead are deposited; originally, a place for the bonesthrown up when digging new graves in old burial grounds.
charon: The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry thesouls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.Shak.
charpie: Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; --used for surgical dressings.
charqui: Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the windand sun. Darwin.
charr: See 1st Char.
charras: The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa). Same asChurrus. Balfour.
charre: See Charge, n., 17.
charry: Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.
chart: To lay down in a chart; to map; to delineate; as, to chart acoast.
chartaceous: Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.
charte: The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy,as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.
charter: The letting or hiring a vessel by special contract, or thecontract or instrument whereby a vessel is hired or let; as, a shipis offered for sale or charter. See Charter party, below. Charterland (O. Eng. Law), land held by charter, or in socage; bookland.-- Charter member, one of the original members of a society orcorporation, esp. one named in a charter, or taking part in the firstproceedings under it.-- Charter party Etym
charterer: One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.
charterhouse: A well known public school and charitable foundation in thebuilding once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.
charterist: Same as Chartist.
chartism: The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), whichcontended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annualparliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms, asset forth in a document called the People's Charter.
chartist: A supporter or partisan of chartism. [Eng.]
chartless: Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.
chartomancy: Divination by written paper or by cards.
chartometer: An instrument for measuring charts or maps.
chartreux: A Carthusian.
chartulary: See Cartulary.
charwoman: A woman hired for odd work or for single days.
chary: Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift;saving; frugal.His rising reputation made him more chary of his fame. Jeffrey.
charybdis: A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla onthe Italian coast. It is personified as a female monster. See Scylla.
chasable: Capable of being chased; fit for hunting. Gower.
chase: To give chase; to hunt; as, to chase around after a doctor.[Colloq.]
chaser: Same as Chase gun, esp. in terms bow chaser and stern chaser.See under Bow, Stern.
chasible: See Chasuble.
chasing: The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, apiece of ornamental work produced in this way.
chasmed: Having gaps or a chasm. [R.]
chasmy: Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms. Carlyle.They cross the chasmy torrent's foam-lit bed. Wordsworth.
chasse: A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left.
chasse-cafe: See Chasse, n., above.
chasse-maree: A French coasting lugger.
chasselas: A white grape, esteemed for the table.
chassepot: A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needlegun.
chasseur: One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained forrapid movements.
chassis: A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which thecarriage of a barbette or casemate gum moves backward and forward.[See Gun carriage.]
chast: to chasten. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chastely: In a chaste manner; with purity.
chastened: Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down. Sir. W.Scott.Of such a finished chastened purity. Tennyson.
chastener: One who chastens.
chasteness: Freedom from all that is meretricious, gaundy, or affected; as,chasteness of design.
chastisable: Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable. Sherwood.
chastisement: The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment andcorrection; discipline; punishment.Shall I so much dishonor my fair stars, On equal terms to give himchastesement! Shak.I have borne chastisement; I will not offend any more. Job xxxiv. 31.
chastiser: One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector. Jer. Taylor.The chastiser of the rich. Burke.
chastity: Chasteness.
chasuble: The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass,consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, backpiece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over theshoulders only. The back has usually a large cross, the front anupright bar or pillar, designed to be emblematical of Christ'ssufferings. In the Greek Church the chasuble is a large round mantle.[Written also chasible, and chesible.]
chat: To talk in a light and familiar manner; to converse withoutform or ceremony; to gossip. Shak.To chat a while on their adventures. Dryden.
chatelaine: An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, andhaving a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets,etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.
chatelet: A little castle.
chatellany: Same as Castellany.
chati: A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).
chatoyant: Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of achangeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark.
chatoyment: Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors.Cleaceland.
chattel: Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold,or the things which are parcel of it. It is a more extensive termthan goods or effects.
chattelism: The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being achattel.
chatter: To utter rapidly, idly, or indistinctly.Begin his witless note apace to chatter. Spenser.
chatteration: The act or habit of chattering. [Colloq.]
chatterer: A bird of the family Ampelidæ -- so called from its monotonousnote. The Bohemion chatterer (Ampelis garrulus) inhabits the arcticregions of both continents. In America the cedar bird is a morecommon species. See Bohemian chatterer, and Cedar bird.
chattering: The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of makinginarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collisionof the teeth; chatter.
chattiness: The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily andpleasantly.
chatty: Given to light, familiar talk; talkative. Lady M. W. Montagu.
chatwood: Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel. Johnson.
chaud-medley: The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, andwhile under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance-medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray. Burrill.
chaudron: See Chawdron. [Obs.]
chauffer: A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box ofsheet iron, with a grate at the bottem, and an open top.
chauffeur: Brigands in bands, who, about 1793, pillaged, burned, andkilled in parts of France; -- so called because they used to burn thefeet of their victims to extort money.
chauffeuse: A woman chauffeur.
chauldron: See Chawdron. [Obs.]
chaun: A gap. [Obs.] Colgrave.
chaunt: See Chant.
chaunterie: See Chantry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chaus: a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).
chausses: The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below thewaist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to thearmor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail.
chaussure: A foot covering of any kind.
chautauqua system of education: The system of home study established in connection with thesummer schools assembled at Chautauqua, N. Y., by the MethodistEpiscopal bishop, J. H. Vincent.
chauvinism: Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsoletecause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism.-- Chau"vin*ist, n.-- Chau`vin*is"tic (, a.
chavender: The chub. Walton.
chaw: The jaw. [Obs.] Spenser. Chaw bacon, a rustic; a bumpkin; alout. (Law) -- Chaw tooth, a grinder. (Law)
chawdron: Entrails. [Obs.] [Written also chaudron, chauldron.] Shak.
chay root: The root of the Oldenlandia umbellata, native in India, whichyieds a durable red dyestuff. [Written also choy root.]
chazy epoch: An epoch at the close of the Canadian period of the AmericanLower Silurian system; -- so named from a township in Clinton Co.,New York. See the Diagram under Geology.
cheap: A bargain; a purchase; cheapness. [Obs.]The sack that thou hast drunk me would have bought me lights as goodcheap at the dearest chandler's in Europe. Shak.
cheapen: To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; todepreciate. Pope.My proffered love has cheapened me. Dryden.
cheapener: One who cheapens.
cheaply: At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferiormanner.
cheapness: Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value.
chear: See Cheer.
cheat: A troublesome grass, growing as a weed in grain fields; --called also chess. See Chess.
cheatable: Capable of being cheated.
cheatableness: Capability of being cheated.
chebacco: A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundlandfisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec. Bartlett.
chebec: See Chebacco.
check: A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such amenace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it wereany other piece, expose it to immediate capture. A king so menaced issaid to be in check, and must be made safe at the next move.
checker: One who checks.
checkerberry: A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen(Gaultheria procumbens). Also incorrectly applied to the partridgeberry (Mitchella repens).
checkerboard: A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used forplaying checkers or draughts.
checkers: A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by twopersons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which aremoved diagonally. The game is ended when either of the players haslost all his men, or can not move them.
checkless: That can not be checked or restrained.
checkmate: To check (an adversary's king) in such a manner that escape inimpossible; to defeat (an adversary) by putting his king in checkfrom which there is no escape.
checkroll: A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll.
checkstring: A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signalto the driver.
checkwork: Anything made so as to form alternate squares lke those of acheckerboard.
checky: Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; --said of the field or of an armorial bearing. [Written also checquy,cheguy.]
cheddar: Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as,Cheddar cheese.
cheek: Those pieces of a machine, or of any timber, or stone work,which form corresponding sides, or which are similar and in pair; as,the cheeks (jaws) of a vise; the cheeks of a gun carriage, etc.
cheeked: Having a cheek; -- used in composition. "Rose-cheeked Adonis."Shak.
cheeky: a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold. [Slang.]
cheep: To chirp, as a young bird.
cheerer: One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens. "Thou cheererof our days." Wotton. "Prime cheerer, light." Thomson.
cheerful: Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery;contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing.To entertain a cheerful disposition. Shak.The cheerful birds of sundry kind Do chant sweet music. Spenser.A cheerful confidence in the mercy of God. Macaulay.This general applause and cheerful shout. Shak.
cheerfully: In a cheerful manner, gladly.
cheerfulness: Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity.
cheerily: In a cheery manner.
cheeriness: The state of being cheery.
cheeringly: In a manner to cheer or encourage.
cheerisness: Cheerfulness. [Obs.]There is no Christian duty that is not to be seasoned and set offwith cheerishness. Milton.
cheerless: Without joy, gladness, or comfort.-- Cheer"less*ly, adv.-- Cheer"less*ness, n.My cheerful day is turned to cheerles night. Spenser.
cheerly: Gay; cheerful. [Obs.] Shak.
cheerry: Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person.His cheery little study, where the sunshine glimmered so pleasantly.Hawthorne.
cheese cloth: A thin, loosewoven cotton cloth, such as is used in pressingcheese curds.
cheeselep: A bag in which rennet is kept.
cheesemonger: One who deals incheese. B. Jonson.
cheeseparing: A thin portion of the rind of a cheese.-- a.
cheesiness: The quality of being cheesy.
cheesy: Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, orappearance of cheese.
cheetah: A species of leopard (Cynælurus jubatus) tamed and used forhunting in India. The woolly cheetah of South Africa is C. laneus.[Written also chetah.]
chef: Same as Chief.
cheiloplasty: The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, byusing for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from someneighboring part.
cheilopoda: See Ch.
cheiropter: One of the Cheiroptera.
cheiroptera: An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes ofeach of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so thatthey can be used like wings in flying. See Bat.
cheiropterous: Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.
cheiropterygium: The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates.
cheirosophy: The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand.-- Chei*ros"o*phist (, n.
cheirotherium: A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprintsrudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to havebeen made by labyrinthodont reptiles. See Illustration in Appendix.
chekelatoun: See Ciclatoun. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chekmak: A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold threadinterwoven.
chela: The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.
chelate: Same as Cheliferous.
chelerythrine: Am alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and namedfrom the red color of its salts, It is a coloriess crystallinesubstance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison. It is identical withsanguinarine.
chelicera: One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by apincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida. They arehomologous with the falcers of spiders, and probably with themandibles of insects.
chelidon: The hollow at the flexure of the arm.
chelidonic: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine. Cheidonicacid, a weak acid extracted fron the celandine (Chelidonium majus),as a white crystalline substance.
chelidonius: A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow.-- anciently worn as a medicinal charm.
chelifer: See Book scorpion, under Book.
cheliferous: Having cheliform claws, like a crab.
cheliform: Having a movable joint or finger closing againts a precedingjoint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be ised forgrasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.
chelone: A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the orderScrophulariaceaæ., natives of North America; -- called alsosnakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc.
chelonia: An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles,perculiar in having a part of the vertebræ, ribs, and sternum unitedwith the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell. The jaws arecovered by a horny beak. See Reptilia; also, Illust. in Appendix.
chelonian: Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind.-- n.
chelura: A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into andsometimes destroy timber.
chely: A claw. See Chela. [Obs.]
chemic: A solution of chloride of line.
chemical: Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by theforces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes ofchemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical comnbinations. Chemicalattraction or affinity. See under Attraction.
chemically: According to chemical principles; by chemical process oroperation.
chemiglyphic: Engraved by a voltaic battary.
chemigraphy: Any mechanical engraving process depending upon chemicalaction; specif., a process of zinc etching not employing photography.-- Chem`i*graph"ic (#), a.
chemiloon: A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers unitedin one. [U. S.]
chemisette: An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck,shoulders, and breast.
chemism: The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substancewhereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction;affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemicalactivity or relationship.
chemist: A person versed in chemistry or given to chemicalinvestigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.
chemitype: One of a number of processes by which an impression from anengraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on anordinary printing press.
chemolysis: A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organicsubstance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agentsalone. Thudichum.
chemosis: Inflammatory swelling of the conjunctival tissue surroundingthe cornea. --Che*mot"ic (#), a.
chemosmosis: Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane.
chemosmotic: Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis. [R.]
chemosynthesis: Synthesis of organic compounds by energy derived from chemicalchanges or reactions. Chemosynthesis of carbohydrates occurs in thenitrite bacteria through the oxidation of ammonia to nitrous acid,and in the nitrate bacteria through the conversion of nitrous intonitric acid. -- Chem`o*syn*thet"ic (#), a.
chemung period: A subdivision in the upper part of the Devonian system inAmerica, so named from the Chemung River, along which the rocks arewell developed. It includes the Portage and Chemung groups or epochs.See the Diagram under Geology.
cheng: A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth.
chenille: Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimimg of ladies'dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of chenillerugs.
chenomorphae: An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese,flamingoes and screamers.
chepster: The European starling. [Local, Eng.]
cheque: See Check.
chequer: Same as Checker.
chequing: A coin. See Sequin. Shak.
chequy: Same as Checky.
cherif: See Cherif.
cherisher: One who cherishes.The cherisher of my flesh and blood. Shak.
cherishment: Encouragement; comfort. [Obs.]Rich bounty and dear cherishment. Spenser.
chermes: See Kermes.
cherogril: See Cony.
cherokees: An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the regionabout the head waters of the Tennessee River. They are now mostlysettled in the Indian Territory, and have become one of the mostcivilized of the Indian Tribes.
cheroot: A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in thePhilippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulteratedtabacco.
cherry: A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes theplum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone; (a) The common gardencherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties arecultivated for the fruit, some of which are, the begarreau,blackheart, black Tartarian, oxheart, morelle or morello, May-duke(corrupted from Médoc in France). (b) The wild cherry; as, prunusserotina (wild black cherry), valued for its timber; P. Virginiana(choke cherry), an American shrub which bears astringent fruit; P.avium and P. Padus, European trees (bird cherry).
chersonese: A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, butunited to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, theCimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea.
chert: An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dullcolor.
cherty: Like chert; containing chert; flinty.
cherub: Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic. "The cherubic host."Milton.
cherubim: The Hebrew plural of Cherub.. Cf. Seraphim.
cherubin: Cherubic; angelic. [Obs.] Shak.
cherup: To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup."Cheruping birds." Drayton.
chervil: A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromaticleaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups andsalads.
ches: pret. of Chese. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chese: To choose [Obs.] Chaucer.
chesible: See Chasuble.
cheslip: The wood louse. [Prov. Eng.]
chess: A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with twodifferently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set. Each player hasa king, a queen, two bishops, two knights, two castles or rooks, andeight pawns.
chess-apple: The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis).
chessboard: The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows ofalternate light and dark squares, eight in each row. SeeCheckerboard.
chessel: The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed. Simmonds.
chesses: The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweledtogether, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge. Wilhelm.A singular, chess, is sometimes used. "Each chess consists of threeplanks." Farrow.
chessil: Gravel or pebbles. Halliwell.
chessman: A piece used in the game of chess.
chessom: Mellow earth; mold. [Obs.] Bacon.
chesstree: A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel,to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.
chessy copper: The mineral azurite, found in fine crystallization at Chessy,near Lyons; called also chessylite.
chest: A case in which certain goods, as tea, opium, etc., aretransported; hence, the quantity which such a case contains.
chest founder: A rheumatic affection of the muscles of the breast and forelegs of a horse, affecting motion and respiration.
chested: Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested;narrow-chested.
chesterlite: A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county ofChester, Pennsylvania.
chesteyn: The chestnut tree. [Obs.]Wilwe, elm, plane, assch, box, chesteyn. Chaucer.
chestnut: The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesce) of Europe andAmerica. Commonly two or more of the nuts grow in a prickly bur.
chetah: See Cheetah.
chetvert: A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or5.95 Winchester bushels. [Russia]
chevachie: See Chivachie. [Obs.]
chevage: See Chiefage. [Obs.]
cheval: A horse; hence, a support or frame. Cheval glass, a mirrorswinging in a frame, and large enough to reflect the full leghtfigure.
cheval-de-frise: A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointedspikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage,stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc.Obstructions of chain, boom, and cheval-de-frise. W. Irving.
chevaux: See Cheval.
cheve: To come to an issue; to turn out; to succed; as, to cheve wellin a enterprise. [Prov. or Obs.] Holland.
chevelure: A hairlike envelope.The nucleus and chevelure of nebulous star. Sir. W. Hershel.
cheven: A river fish; the chub. Sir T. Browne.
cheventein: A variant of Chieftain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cheveril: Soft leather made of kid skin. Fig.
cheverliize: To make as pliable as kid leather. [Obs.] Br. Montagu.
chevet: The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round orpolygonal part.
chevrette: A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages.
chevron: One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broadbands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexterand sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.
chevroned: Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of azigzag from.[A garment] whose nether parts, with their bases, were of watchetcloth of silver, chevroned all over with lace. B. Jonson.
chevronel: A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width.
chevronwise: In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be dividedchevronwise.
chevrotain: A small ruminant of the family Tragulidæ a allied to the muskdeer. It inhabits Africa and the East Indies. See Kanchil.
chevy: See Chivy, v. t. [Slang, Eng.]One poor fellow was chevied about among the casks in the storm forten minutes. London Times.
chew: To perform the action of biting and grinding with the teeth; toruminate; to meditate.old politicians chew wisdom past. Pope.
chewer: One who chews.
chewet: A kind of meat pie. [Obs.]
chewink: An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family,so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and groundrobin.
cheyennes: A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerlyinhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations inthe Indian Territory. They are noted for their horsemanship.
chian: Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Ægean Sea. Chianearth, a dense, compact kind of earth, from Chios, used anciently asan astringent and a cosmetic.-- Chian turpentine, a fragrant, almost transparent turpentine,obtained from the Pistacia Terebinthus.
chiaroscurist: A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather thancolor.
chiasmus: An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated orsubsequently referred to in a sentence; thus,If e'er to bless thy sons My voice or hands deny, These hands letuseful skill forsake, This voice in silence die. Dwight.
chiastolite: A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle. The tesselatedapperance of a cross section is due to the symmetrical arrangement ofimpurities in the crystal.
chibbal: See Cibol.
chic: Good form; style. [Slang]
chica: A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, usedby some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.
chicalote: A Mexican prickly poppy (Argemone platyceras), which hasmigrated into California.
chicane: The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attentionfrom the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied tolegal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry. Prior.To shuffle from them by chicane. Burke.To cut short this, I propound it fairly to your own canscience.Berkeley.
chicaner: One who uses chicanery. Locke.
chicanery: Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure thetruth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.Irritated by perpetual chicanery. Hallam.
chiccory: See Chicory.
chich: The chick-pea.
chicha: See Chica.
chichevache: A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives,and which was therefore in very lean condition.
chick: To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate. Chalmers.
chick-pea: A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, andthe sounth of Europe; the chick; the dwarf pea; the gram.
chickabiddy: A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for achild.
chickadee: A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), ofNorth America; -- named from its note.
chickaree: The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so calledfrom its cry.
chickasaws: A trible of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian)allied to the Choctaws. They formerly occupied the northern part ofAlabama and Mississippi, but now live in the Indian Territory.
chicken pox: A mild, eruptive disease, generally attacking children only;varicella.
chicken-breasted: Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvatureof the vertebral column.
chicken-hearted: Timid; fearful; cowardly. Bunyan.
chickling: A small chick or chicken.
chickweed: The name of several caryophyllaseous weeds, especiallyStellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favoritefood of small birds.
chicky: A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially incalling fowls.
chicory: A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with brightblue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; alsocultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive.See Endive.
chide: A continuous noise or murmur.The chide of streams. Thomson.
chider: One who chides or quarrels. Shak.
chideress: She who chides. [Obs.]
chidester: A female scold. [Obs.]
chidingly: In a chiding or reproving manner.
chief: The upper third part of the field. It is supposed to becomposed of the dexter, sinister, and middle chiefs. In chief. (a) Atthe head; as, a commander in chief. (b) (Eng. Law) From the king, orsovereign; as, tenure in chief, tenure directly from the king.
chief baron: The presiding judge of the court of exchequer.
chief hare: A small rodent (Lagamys princeps) inhabiting the summits of theRocky Mountains; -- also called crying hare, calling hare, cony,American pika, and little chief hare.
chief justice: The presiding justice, or principal judge, of a court. LordChief Justice of England, The presiding judge of the Queen's BenchDivision of the High Court of Justice. The highest judicial officerof the realm is the Lord High Chancellor.-- Chief Justice of the United States, the presiding judge of theSupreme Court, and Highest judicial officer of the republic.
chief-justiceship: The office of chief justice.Jay selected the chief-justiceship as most in accordance with histastes. The Century.
chiefage: A tribute by the head; a capitation tax. [Written also chevageand chivage.] [Obs.]
chiefest: First or foremost; chief; principal. [Archaic] "Our chiefestcourtier." Shak.The chiefest among ten thousand. Canticles v. 10.
chiefless: Without a chief or leader.
chiefrie: A small rent paid to the lord paramount. [Obs.] Swift.
chieftain: A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop,army, or clan.
chierte: Love; tender regard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chievance: An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported asdiscount. [Obs.] Bacon.
chieve: See Cheve, v. i. [Obs.]
chiff-chaff: A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- calledalso chip-chap, and pettychaps.
chiffon: Any merely ornamental adjunct of a woman's dress, as a bunch ofribbon, lace, etc.
chignon: A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by awoman at the back of the head.A curl that had strayed from her chignon. H. James.
chih fu: An official administering a prefecture of China; a prefect,supervising the civil business of the hsiens or districts comprisedin his fu (which see).
chih hsien: An official having charge of a hsien, or administrativedistrict, in China; a district magistrate, responsible for good orderin his hsien (which see), and having jurisdiction in its civil andcriminal cases.
chih tai: A Chinese governor general; a tsung tu (which see).
chilblain: A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposureof the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, andsometimes ulceration.
child: To give birth; to produce young.This queen Genissa childing died. Warner.It chanced within two days they childed both. Latimer.
child study: A scientific study of children, undertaken for the purpose ofdiscovering the laws of development of the body and the mind frombirth to manhood.
childbearing: The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition.Milton. Addison.
childbed: The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor;parturition.
childbirth: The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor. Jer. Taylor.
childcrowing: The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of thelaryngeal muscles; false croup.
childe: A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son,until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as,Childe Roland.
childed: Furnished with a child. [Obs.]
childermas day: A day (December 28) observed by mass or festival incommemoration of the children slain by Herod at Bethlehem; -- calledalso Holy Innocent's Day.
childing: Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful. [R.] Shak.
childishly: In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak orfoolish manner.
childishness: The state or quality of being childish; simplicity;harmlessness; weakness of intellect.
childlessness: The state of being childless.
childlike: Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becominga child; meek; submissive; dutiful. "Childlike obedience." Hooker.
childly: Having tthe character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, toa child. Gower.
childness: The manner characteristic of a child. [Obs.] "Varyingchildness." Shak.
children: pl. of Child.
childship: The state or relation of being a child.
chilean: Of or pertaining to Chile.
chilean pine: Same as Monkey-puzzle.
chili: A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum [Written also chilli andchile.]
chiliad: A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, aperiod of a thousand years.The world, then in the seventh chiliad, will be assumed up unto God.Sir. T. More.
chiliagon: A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides. Barlow.
chiliahedron: A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces [Spelt alsochiliaëdron.]
chilian: Of or pertaining to Chili.-- n.
chiliarchy: A body consisting of a thousand men. Mitford.
chiliast: One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign onearth a thousand years; a milllenarian.
chiliastic: Millenarian. "The obstruction offered by the chiliasticerrors." J. A. Alexander.
chill: A sensation of cold with convulsive shaking of the body,pinched face, pale skin, and blue lips, caused by undue cooling ofthe body or by nervous excitement, or forming the precursor of someconstitutional disturbance, as of a fever.
chilled: Having that cloudiness or dimness of surface that is called"blooming."
chilli: See Chili.
chilling: Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant;as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner.-- Chill"ing"ly, adv.
chillness: Coolness; coldness; a chill.Death is the chillness that precedes the dawn. Longfellow.
chilly: Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering;causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering.
chilognath: A myriapod of the order Chilognatha.
chilognatha: One of the two principal orders of myriapods. They havenumerous segments, each bearing two pairs of small, slender legs,which are attached ventrallly, near together.
chiloma: The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.
chilopod: A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.
chilopoda: One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds. Theyhave a single pair of elongated legs attached laterally to eachsegment; well developed jaws; and a pair of thoracic legs convertedinto poison fangs. They are insectivorous, very active, and somespecies grow to the length of a foot.
chilostomatous: Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.
chiltern hundreds: A tract of crown land in Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire,England, to which is attached the nominal office of steward. Asmembers of Parliament cannot resign, when they wish to go out theyaccept this stewardship, which legally vacates their seats.
chimaera: A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the orderHolocephali. The teeth are few and large. The head is furnished withappendages, and the tail terminates in a point.
chimaeroid: Related to, or like, the chimæra.
chimango: A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). SeeCaracara.
chimb: The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3. [Writtenalso hime.]
chime: See Chine, n., 3.
chimer: One who chimes.
chimera: A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having thehead of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon. "Direchimeras and enchanted isles." Milton.
chimere: The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves areusually attached. Hook.
chimeric: Chimerical.
chimerical: Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainlyconceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except inthought; as, chimerical projects.
chimerically: Wildy; vainly; fancifully.
chiminage: A toll for passage through a forest. [Obs.] Cowell.
chimney: A body of ore, usually of elongated form, extending downward ina vein. Raymond. Chimney board, a board or screen used to close afireplace; a fireboard.-- Chimney cap, a device to improve the draught of a chimney, bypresenting an exit aperture always to leeward.-- Chimney corner, the space between the sides of the fireplace andthe fire; hence, the fireside.-- Chimney hook, a hook for holding pats and kettles over a fire, --Chimney money, hearth money, a duty formerly paid in England for eachchimney.-- Chimney pot (Arch.), a cylinder of earthenware or sheet metalplaced at the top of a chimney which rises above the roof.-- Chimney swallow. (Zoöl.) (a) An American swift (Chæturepelasgica) which lives in chimneys. (b) In England, the commonswallow (Hirundo rustica).-- Chimney sweep, Chimney sweeper, one who cleans chimneys of soot;esp. a boy who climbs the flue, and brushes off the soot.
chimney-breast: The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in whichit is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of abuilding only.
chimney-piece: A decorative construction around the opning of a fireplace.
chimpanzee: An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytesniger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, thanany other ape. When full grown, it is from three to four feet high.
chin: The exterior or under surface embraced between the branches ofthe lower jaw bone, in birds.
chin cough: Whooping cough.
chinaldine: See Quinaldine.
chinaman: A native of China; a Chinese.
chincapin: See Chinquapin.
chinch: The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).
chincha: A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.
chinche: Parsimonious; niggardly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chincherie: Penuriousness. [Obs.]By cause of his skarsete and chincherie. Caucer.
chinchilla: A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a largesquirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of apearly gray color. It is a native of Peru and Chili.
chine: A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chinein the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.[Prov. Eng.] "The cottage in a chine." J. Ingelow.
chinese: Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China. Chinese paper.See India paper, under India.-- Chinese wax, a snowy-wgite, waxlike substance brought from China.It is the bleached secretion of certain insects of the family Coccidæespecially Coccus Sinensis.
chinese exclusion act: Any of several acts forbidding the immigration of Chineselaborers into the United States, originally from 1882 to 1892 by actof May 6, 1882, then from 1892 to 1902 by act May 5, 1892. By act ofApril 29, 1902, all existing legislation on the subject was reënactedand continued, and made applicable to the insular possessions of theUnited States.
chink: A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length thanbreadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.Through one cloudless chink, in a black, stormy sky. Shines out thedewy morning star. Macaulay.
chinky: Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.Dryden.
chinned: Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.
chinoidine: See Quinodine.
chinoiserie: Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimenof Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc.
chinoline: See Quinoline.
chinone: See Quinone.
chinook: One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in thestate of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls.Chinooks also called Flathead Indians.
chinook state: Washington -- a nickname. See Chinook, n.
chinquapin: A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) ofNorth America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.Also, its small, sweet, edible nat. [Written also chincapin andchinkapin.] Chinquapin oak, a small shrubby oak (Quercus prinoides)of the Atlantic States, with edible acorns.-- Western Chinquapin, an evergreen shrub or tree (Castanopeschrysophylla) of the Pacific coast. In California it is a shrub; inOregon a tree 30 to 125 feet high.
chinse: To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel , thepoint of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly. Chinsingiron, a light calking iron.
chintz: Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in anumber of different colors, and often glazed. Swift.
chioppine: Same as Chopine, n.
chip: To break or fly off in small pieces.
chipmunk: A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes calledthe striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee. Thecommon species of the United States is the Tamias striatus. [Writtenalso chipmonk, chipmuck, and chipmuk.]
chippendale: Designating furniture designed, or like that designed, byThomas Chippendale, an English cabinetmaker of the 18th century.Chippendale furniture was generally of simple but graceful outlinewith delicately carved rococo ornamentation, sculptured either in thesolid wood or, in the cheaper specimens, separately and glued on. Inthe more elaborate pieces three types are recognized
chipper: To chirp or chirrup. [ Prov. Eng.] Forby.
chippeways: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern andweastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.
chipping bird: The chippy.
chipping squirrel: See Chipmunk.
chippy: Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.
chips: A ship's carpenter. [Cant.]
chiragra: Gout in the hand.
chiragrical: Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease. Sir.T. Browne.
chiretta: A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, havingmedicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic andfebrifuge.
chirk: To cheer; to enliven; as, to chirk one up. [Colloq. New Eng. ]
chirm: To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird. [Obs.] Huloet.
chirognomy: The art of judging character by the shape and apperance of thehand.
chirographer: Of or pertaining to chirography.
chirogymnast: A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of apianist.
chirological: Relating to chirology.
chirologist: One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands andfingers.
chirology: The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or ofcommunicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; asubstitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with thedeaf and dumb. See Dactylalogy.
chiromancer: One who practices chiromancy. Dryden.
chiromancy: The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling thefortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand;palmistry.
chiromonic: Relating to chironomy.
chironomy: The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture[Obs.]
chiroplast: An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils inplaying on the piano, etc.
chiropodist: One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, onewho removes corns and bunions.
chiropody: The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.
chirosophist: A fortune teller.
chirp: To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.
chirper: One who chirps, or is cheerful.
chirping: Cheering; enlivening.He takes his chirping pint, he cracks his jokes. Pope.
chirpingly: In a chirping manner.
chirre: To coo, as a pigeon. [Obs.]
chirrup: To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.
chirrupy: Cheerful; joyous; chatty.
chirurgeon: A surgeon. [Obs.]
chirurgeonly: Surgically. [Obs.] Shak.
chirurgery: Surgery. [Obs.]
chisel: A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used indressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; --usually driven by a mallet or hammer. Cold chisel. See under Cold, a.
chisleu: The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering toa part of November with a part of December.
chisley: Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said ofa soil. Gardner.
chit: To shoot out; to sprout.I have known barley chit in seven hours after it had been thrownforth. Mortimer.
chitchat: Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.
chitin: A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part ofthe outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various otherinvertebrates; entomolin.
chitinization: The process of becoming chitinous.
chitinous: Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing,chitin.
chiton: One of a group of gastropod mollusks, with a shell composed ofeight movable dorsal plates. See Polyplacophora.
chitterling: The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed outresembled the small entrails. See Chitterlings. [Obs.] Gascoigne.
chitterlings: The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.
chittra: The axis deer of India.
chivachie: A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition. [Obs.] Chaucer.
chivalric: Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.
chivalrous: Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic;gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.In brave pursuit of chivalrous emprise. Spenser.
chivalrously: In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.
chivalry: A tenure of lands by knight's service; that is, by thecondition of a knight's performing service on horseback, or ofperforming some noble or military service to his lord.
chive: A filament of a stamen. [Obs.]
chivy: To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch. [Slang, Eng.] Dickens.
chlamydate: Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.
chlamyphore: A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C.retusus) allied to the armadillo. It is covered with a leathery shellor coat of mail, like a cloak, attached along the spine.
chlamys: A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks;a kind of cloak.
chloasma: A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowishbrown pigmented spots.
chloral: A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harshtaste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethylalcohol.
chloralamide: A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.
chloralism: A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive useof chloral.
chloralum: An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as anantiseptic and disinfectant.
chloranil: A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as aderivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certainbenzene derivatives, as aniline.
chlorate: A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.
chloraurate: See Aurochloride.
chlorhydric: Same as Hydrochloric.
chlorhydrin: One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasicalcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorinefor one or more hydroxyl groups.
chloric: Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of thosecompounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, orthe next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3. Chloric ether(Chem.), ethylene dichloride. See Dutch liquid, under Dutch.
chloridate: To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chlorideof silver, for the purposes of photography. R. Hunt.
chloride: A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical;as, chloride of sodium (common salt). Chloride of ammonium, salammoniac.-- Chloride of lime, bleaching powder; a grayish white substance,CaOClcalcium hypochlorite. See Hypochlorous acid, under Hypochlorous.-- Mercuric chloride, corrosive sublimate.
chloridic: Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.
chloridize: See Chloridate.
chlorimetry: See Chlorometry.
chlorinate: To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.
chlorination: The act or process of subjecting anything to the action ofchlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold byexposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.
chlorine: One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as agreenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of anintensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous.It is abundant in nature, the most important compound being commonsalt. It is powerful oxidizing, bleaching, and disinfecting agent.Symbol Cl. Atomic weight, 35.4. Chlorine family, the elementsfluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine, called the halogens, andclassed together from their common peculiariries.
chloriodic: Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine andiodine.
chloriodine: A compound of chlorine and iodine. [R.]
chlorite: The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color andmicaceous to granular in structure. They are hydrous silicates ofalumina, iron, and magnesia. Chlorite slate, a schistose or slatyrock consisting of alumina, iron, and magnesia.
chloritic: Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.
chlormethane: A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to aliquid; -- called also methyl chloride.
chloro-: A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in thesubstance named.
chlorocruorin: A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green colorof the blood in some species of worms. Ray Lankester.
chlorodyne: A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indianhemp, etc.
chloroform: A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor anda sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and analkali. It is a powerful solvent of wax, resin, etc., and isextensively used to produce anæsthesia in surgical operations; alsoexternally, to alleviate pain.
chloroleucite: Same as Chloroplastid.
chlorometer: An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power ofchloride of lime.
chlorometry: The process of testing the bleaching power of any combinationof chlorine.
chloropal: A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like inappearance. It is essentially a hydrous silicate of iron.
chloropeptic: Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin-hydrochloric acid.
chlorophane: A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautifulemerald green light.
chlorophyll: Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in thecells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, towhich they owe their green color, and through which all ordinaryassimilation of plant food takes place. Similar chlorophyll granuleshave been found in the tissues of the lower animals. [Written alsochlorophyl.]
chloroplast: A plastid containing chlorophyll, developed only in cellsexposed to the light. Chloroplasts are minute flattened granules,usually occurring in great numbers in the cytoplasm near the cellwall, and consist of a colorless ground substance saturated withchlorophyll pigments. Under light of varying intensity they exhibitphototactic movements. In animals chloroplasts occur only in certainlow forms.
chloroplastid: A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.
chloroplatinic: See Platinichloric.
chlorosis: The green sickness; an anæmic disease of young women,characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin,weakness, palpitation, etc.
chlorotic: Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.
chlorous: Pertaining to, or resembling, the electro-negative character ofchlorine; hence, electro-negative; -- opposed to basylous or zincous.[Obs.]
chlorpicrin: A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor,obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.[Written also chloropikrin.]
chloruret: A chloride. [Obs.]
choak: See Choke.
choanoid: Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscleattached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.
chocard: The chough.
chock: To stop or fasten, as with a wedge, or block; to scotch; as, tochock a wheel or cask.
chock-full: Quite full; choke-full.
chockablock: Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought closetogether, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.
choctaws: ; sing. Choctaw. (Ethnol.) A tribe of North American Indians(Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit ofagriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers. Theyare now one of the civilized tribes of the Indian Territory.
chode: the old imp. of chide. See Chide.
chogset: See Cunner.
choiceful: Making choices; fickle. [Obs.]His choiceful sense with every change doth fit. Spenser.
choiceness: The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely;excellence.
choir: The chancel. Choir organ (Mus.), one of the three or fivedistinct organs included in the full organ, each separable from therest, but all controlled by one performer; a portion of the fullorgan, complete in itself, and more practicable for ordinary serviceand in the accompanying of the vocal choir.-- Choir screen, Choir wall (Arch.), a screen or low wall separatingthe choir from the aisles.-- Choir service, the service of singing performed by the choir. T.Warton.
choke damp: See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.
choke-full: Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.
choke-strap: A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of thecollar, to keep the collar in place.
chokeberry: The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an Americanshrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.
chokebore: To provide with a chokebore.
chokecherry: The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (PrunusVirginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.
chokedar: A watchman; an officer of customs or police. [India]
choking coil: A coil of small resistance and large inductance, used in analternating-current circuit to impede or throttle the current, or tochange its phase; --called also reactance coil or reactor, theseterms being now preferred in engineering usage.
cholaemaa: A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependentupon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.
cholagogue: Promoting the discharge of bile from the system.-- n.
cholate: A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.
cholecystis: The gall bladder.
cholecystotomy: The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as forthe removal of a gallstone.
choledology: A treatise on the bile and bilary organs. Dunglison.
choleic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.
cholera: One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinaltract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonlycalled Asiatic cholera. Asiatic cholera, a malignant and rapidlyfatal disease, originating in Asia and frequently epidemic in themore filthy sections of other lands, to which the germ or specificpoison may have been carried. It is characterized by diarrhea, rice-water evacuations, vomiting, cramps, pinched expression, andlividity, rapidly passing into a state of collapse, followed bydeath, or by a stage of reaction of fever.-- Cholera bacillus. See Comma bacillus.-- Cholera infantum, a dangerous summer disease, of infants, causedby hot weather, bad air, or poor milk, and especially fatal in largecities.-- Cholera morbus, a disease characterized by vomiting and purging,with gripings and cramps, usually caused by imprudence in diet or bygastrointestinal disturbance.-- Chicken cholera. See under Chicken.-- Hog cholera. See under Hog.-- Sporadic cholera, a disease somewhat resembling the Asiaticcholera, but originating where it occurs, and rarely becomingepidemic.
choleraic: Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.
cholericly: In a choleric manner; angrily.
choleriform: Resembling cholera.
choleroid: Choleriform.
cholesteric: Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholestericacid. Ure.
cholesterin: A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless,found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially innerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.
choline: See Neurine.
cholochrome: See Bilirubin.
cholophaein: See Bilirubin.
choltry: A Hindoo caravansary.
chomage: Stoppage; cessation (of labor).
chomp: To chew loudly and greedily; to champ. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Halliwell.
chondrification: Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.
chondrify: To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.
chondrigen: The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling inwater into a gelatinous body called chondrin.
chondrigenous: Affording chondrin.
chondrin: A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless andodorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued actionof boiling water. It is similar to gelatin, and is a large ingredientof commercial gelatin.
chondrite: A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.
chondritic: Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structurecharacteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.
chondritis: An inflammation of cartilage.
chondro-: A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage,cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of thelower vertebrates and of embryos.
chondrodite: A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color,often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.
chondroganoidea: An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- socalled on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.
chondrogen: Same as Chondrigen.
chondrogenesis: The development of cartilage.
chondroid: Resembling cartilage.
chondrology: The science which treats of cartilages. Dunglison.
chondroma: A cartilaginous tumor or growth.
chondrometer: A steelyard for weighting grain.
chondropterygian: Having a cartilaginous skeleton.-- n.
chondropterygii: A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins andskeleton. It includes both ganoids (sturgeons, etc.) and selachians(sharks), but is now often restricted to the latter. [Written alsoChondropterygia.]
chondrostei: An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so namedbecause the skeleton is cartilaginous.
chondrotomy: The dissection of cartilages.
chondrule: A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatiteor chrysolite, found imdedded more or less aboundantly in the mass ofmany meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.
chooser: One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; anelector. Burke.
chop: To vary or shift suddenly; as, the wind chops about.
chop-logic: One who bandies words or is very argunentative. [Jocular] Shak.
chopboat: A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods toand from vessels. [China] S. W. Williams.
chopchurch: An exchanger or an exchange of benefices. [Cant]
chopfallen: Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen;dejected; dispirited;downcast. See Chapfallen.
chophouse: A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.The freedom of a chophouse. W. Irving.
chopin: A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain,varying from half a pint to a wine quart.
chopine: A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some casesraised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more. [Variously speltchioppine, chopin, etc.]Your ladyship is nearer to heaven than when I saw you last, by thealtitude of a chopine. Shak.
chopness: A kind of spade. [Eng.]
chopper: One who, or that which, chops.
chopping: Stout or plump; large. [Obs.] Fenton.
choppy: Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea.
chopstick: One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by theChinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.
choragic: Of or pertaining to a choragus. Choragic monument, a buildingor column built by a victorious choragus for the reception andexhibition of the tripod which he received as a prize. Those ofLysicrates and Thrasyllus are still to be seen at Athens.
choragus: A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense andunder his own supervision one of the choruses for the musicalcontents at Athens.
choral: Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, oradapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony. Choral service, a serviceof song.
choralist: A singer or composer of chorals.
chorally: In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; inharmony.
chord: A combination of tones simultaneously performed, producing moreor less perfect harmony, as, the common chord.
chorda: A cord. Chorda dorsalis (. Etym
chordal: Of or pertaining to a chord.
chordata: A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebratatogether with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervouscord.
chordee: A painful erection of the penis, usually with downwardcurvature, occurring in gonorrhea.
chore: A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of ahousehold or farm, either within or without doors. [U. S.]
chorea: St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsivetwitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.
choree: See Choreus.
choregraphy: The art of representing dancing by signs, as music isrepresented by notes. Craig.
choreic: Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive.
chorepiscopal: Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority.
chorepiscopus: A "country" or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancientchurch by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in arural district.
choriamb: Same as Choriambus.
choriambic: Pertaining to a choriamb.-- n.
choriambus: A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first andlast are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, ortrochee, and an iambus united.
choric: Of or pertaining to a chorus.I remember a choric ode in the Hecuba. Coleridge.
chorion: The outer membrane of seeds of plants.
chorisis: The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.
chorist: A singer in a choir; a chorister. [R.]
choristic: Choric; choral. [R.]
chorograph: An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying,etc.
chorographical: Pertaining to chorography.-- Cho`ro*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
chorography: the mapping or description of a region or district.The chorography of their provinces. Sir T. Browne.
choroid: resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of theventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball.-- n.
choroidal: Pertaining to the choroid coat.
chorology: The science which treats of the laws of distribution of livingorganisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude,locality, etc.Its distribution or chorology. Huxley.
chorometry: The art of surveying a region or district.
chortle: A word coined by Lewis Carroll (Charles L. Dodgson), andusually explained as a combination of chuckle and snort. [Humorous]
chorus: A band of singers and dancers.The Grecian tragedy was at first nothing but a chorus of singers.Dryden.
chose: A thing; personal property. Chose in action, a thing of whichone has not possession or actual enjoyment, but only a right to it,or a right to demand it by action at law, and which does not exist atthe time in specie; a personal right to a thing not reduced topossession, but recoverable by suit at law; as a right to recovermoney due on a contract, or damages for a tort, which can not beenforced against a reluctant party without suit.-- Chose in possession, a thing in possession, as distinguished froma thing in action.-- Chose local, a thing annexed to a place, as a mill.-- Chose transitory, a thing which is movable. Cowell. Blount.
chosen: Selected from a number; picked out; choice.Seven hundred chosen men left-handed. Judg. xx. 16.
chouan: One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany,etc.), during and after the French revolution.
chough: A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe. It isof a black color, with a long, slender, curved bill and red legs; --also called chauk, chauk-daw, chocard, Cornish chough, red-leggedcrow. The name is also applied to several allied birds, as the Alpinechough. Cornish chough (Her.), a bird represented black, with redfeet, and beak; -- called also aylet and sea swallow.
chouicha: The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat.
chouka: The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.
choule: See Jowl. Sir W. Scott.
choultry: See Choltry.
chouse: To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, tochouse one out of his money. [Colloq.]The undertaker of the afore-cited poesy hath choused your highness.Landor.
chout: An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue. [India] J.Mill.
chow: A prefecture or district of the second rank in China, or thechief city of such a district; -- often part of the name of a city,as in Foochow.
chowchow: Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as,chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).
chowder: A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc.,stewed together.
chowry: A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies. Malcom.
chowter: To grumble or mutter like a froward child. [Obs.] E. Phillips.
choy root: See Chay root.
chrematistics: The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science,of political economy.
chreotechnics: The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures,and commerce. [R.]
chrestomathic: Teaching what is useful. "A chrestomathic school." Southey.
chrestomathy: A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used inacquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.
chrismal: Of or pertaining to or used in chrism.
chrismation: The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil.Chrismation or cross-signing with ointment, was used in baptism. Jer.Taylor.
chrismatory: A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept.
christ: The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior. It issynonymous with the Hebrew Messiah.
christcross-row: The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the crossusually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimespracticed, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm.From infant conning of the Christcross-row. Wordsworth.
christian era: The era in use in all Christian countries, which was intendedto commence with the birth of Christ. The era as now established wasfirst used by Dionysius Exiguus (died about 540), who placed thebirth of Christ on the 25th of December in the year of Rome 754,which year he counted as 1 a. d. This date for Christ's birth is nowgenerally thought to be about four years too late.
christian science: A system of healing disease of mind and body which teaches thatall cause and effect is mental, and that sin, sickness, and deathwill be destroyed by a full understanding of the Divine Principle ofJesus' teaching and healing. The system was founded by Rev. MaryBaker Glover Eddy, of Concord, N. H., in 1866, and bases its teachingon the Scriptures as understood by its adherents.
christian scientist: A believer in Christian Science; one who practices itsteachings.
christian seneca: Joseph Hall (1574 -- 1656), Bishop of Norwich, a divine eminentas a moralist.
christian socialism: Any theory or system that aims to combine the teachings ofChrist with the teachings of socialism in their applications to life;Christianized socialism; esp., the principles of this natureadvocated by F. D. Maurice, Charles Kingsley, and others in Englandabout 1850. -- Christian socialist.
christianization: The act or process of converting or being converted to a trueChristianity.
christianize: To adopt the character or belief of a Christian; to becomeChristian.The pagans began to Christianize. Latham.
christianlike: Becoming to a Christian.A virtuous and a Christianlike conclusion. Shak.
christianly: In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.Sufferings . . . patiently and Christianly borne. Sharp.
christianness: Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity. [Obs.] Hammond.
christless: Without faith in Christ; unchristian. Tennyson.
christlike: Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc.-- Christ"like`ness, n.
christly: Christlike. H. Bushnell.
christmas: An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States alegal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated bya particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings,and hospitality. Christmas box. (a) A box in which presents aredeposited at Christmas. (b) A present or small gratuity given toyoung people and servants at Christmas; a Christmas gift.-- Christmas carol, a carol sung at, or suitable for, Christmas.-- Christmas day. Same as Christmas.-- Christmas eve, the evening before Christmas.-- Christmas fern (Bot.), an evergreen North American fern (Aspidiumacrostichoides), which is much used for decoration in winter.-- Christmas flower, Christmas rose, the black hellebore, apoisonous plant of the buttercup family, which in Southern Europeoften produces beautiful roselike flowers midwinter.-- Christmas tree, a small evergreen tree, set up indoors, to bedecorated with bonbons, presents, etc., and illuminated on Christmaseve.
christmastide: The season of Christmas.
christocentric: Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, asin religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central objectof thought or emotion. J. W. Chadwick.
christology: A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treatsof the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.
christom: See Chrisom. [Obs.] Shak.
christophany: An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after thecrucifixion.
chromascope: An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.
chromate: A salt of chromic acid.
chromatic: Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones)of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.
chromatical: Chromatic. [Obs.]
chromatically: In a chromatic manner.
chromatics: The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of theproperties of colors.
chromatin: Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes.
chromatism: The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed bya lens.
chromatogenous: Producing color.
chromatography: A treatise on colors
chromatology: A treatise on colors.
chromatophore: A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment andcapable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of colorin the translucent skin of such animals as possess them. They arehighly developed and numerous in the cephalopods.
chromatoscope: A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotateeccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, insteadof a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars.
chromatosphere: A chromosphere. [R.]
chromatrope: An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light(depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) bymeans of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.
chromatype: A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitivewith potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.
chrome: Same as Chromium. Chrome alum (Chem.), a dark violet substance,(SO4)3Cr2.K2SO4.24H2O, analogous to, and crystallizing like, commonalum. It is regarded as a double sulphate of chromium and potassium.-- Chrome green (a) The green oxide of chromium, Cr2O3, used inenamel painting, and glass staining. (b) A pigment made by mixingchrome yellow with Prussian blue.-- Chrome red, a beautiful red pigment originally prepared from thebasic chromate of lead, but now made from red oxide of lead.-- Chrome yellow, a brilliant yellow pigment, PbCrO4, used bypainters.
chrome steel: Same as Chromium steel, under Steel.
chromic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of thecompounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence. Chromicacid, an acid, H2CrO4, analogous to sulphuric acid, not readilyobtained in the free state, but forming well known salts, many ofwhich are colored pigments, as chrome yellow, chrome red, etc.-- Chromic anhydride, a brilliant red crystalline substance, CrO3,regarded as the anhydride of chromic acid. It is one of the mostpowerful oxidizers known.
chromid: One of the Chromidæ, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant inthe tropical parts of America and Africa. Some are valuable foodfishes, as the bulti of the Nile.
chromidrosis: Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration.
chromism: Same as Chromatism.
chromite: A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium andiron; -- called also chromic iron.
chromium: A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in themineral chromite. Atomic weight 52.5. Symbol Cr. When isolated it isa hard, brittle, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty. Itschief commercial importance is for its compounds, as potassiumchromate, lead chromate, etc., which are brilliantly colored and areused dyeing and calico printing. Called also chrome.
chromo: A chromolithograph.
chromoblast: An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell.
chromogen: Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.
chromogenic: Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenicbacteria.
chromograph: An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter,maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph.
chromoleucite: A chromoplastid.
chromolithograph: A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressionsfrom a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process.
chromolithographer: One who is engaged in chromolithography.
chromolithographic: Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography.
chromolithography: Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors.
chromophane: A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green,yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of theretina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light;distinct from the photochemical pigments of the rods of the retina.
chromophore: Any chemical group or residue (as NO
chromophotograph: A picture made by any of the processes for reproducingphotographs in colors. --Chro`mo*pho`to*graph"ic (#), a.
chromophotography: The art of producing photographs in colors.
chromophotolithograph: A photolithograph printed in colors.
chromoplastid: A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- alsocalled chromoleucite.
chromosome: One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of thenucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant ofWeismann.
chromosphere: An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally ofincandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping thephotosphere. Portions of the chromosphere are here and there thrownup into enormous tongues of flame.
chromospheric: Of or pertaining to the chromosphere.
chromous: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this elementhas a valence lower than that in chromic compounds. Chromous acid, abluish gray powder, CrO.OH, of weak acid properties and regard as anacid.
chromule: A general name for coloring matter of plants other thanchlorophyll, especially that of petals.
chronical: Chronic.Partly on a chronical, and partly on a topical method. J. A.Alexander.
chronicle: The two canonical books of the Old Testament in whichimmediately follow 2 Kings.
chronicler: A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order oftime; an historian.Such an honest chronicler as Griffith. Shak.
chronique: A chronicle. L. Addison.
chronogram: Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.
chronogrammatist: A writer of chronograms.
chronographer: One who writes a chronography; a chronologer. Tooke.
chronographic: Of or pertaining to a chronograph.
chronography: A description or record of past time; history. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
chronologer: Same as Chronologist.
chronology: The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisionsor periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their properdates.If history without chronology is dark and confused, chronologywithout history is dry and insipid. A. Holmes.
chronometer: A metronome. Box chronometer. See under Box.-- Pocket chronometer, a chronometer in the form of a large watch.-- To rate a chronometer. See Rate, v. t.
chronometry: The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods ordivisions.
chronopher: An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points byelectricity.
chronophotograph: One of a set of photographs of a moving object, taken for thepurpose of recording and exhibiting successive phases of the motion.--Chron`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n.
chronoscope: An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used indetermining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-livedluminous phenomena, etc.
chrysalid: Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis.
chrysalis: The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, fromwhich the perfect insect emerges. See Pupa, and Aurelia (a).
chrysaniline: A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufactureof rosaniline. It dyes silk a fine golden-yellow color.
chrysanthemum: A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of manyspecies including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annualand perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy.
chrysarobin: A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent ofGoa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerlycalled also chrysphanic acid.
chrysaurin: An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production.
chryselephantine: Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.
chrysene: One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied tonapthalene and anthracene. It is a white crystalline substance,C18H12, of strong blue fluorescence, but generally colored yellow byimpurities.
chrysoberyl: A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or browncolor, and consisting of aluminia and glucina. It is very hard, andis often used as a gem.
chrysochlore: A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the goldenmole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green andgold.
chrysocolla: A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue orgreenish blue color.
chrysogen: A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene.
chrysoidine: An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2.Also, one of a group of dyestuffs resembling chrysoïdine proper.
chrysolite: A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellowto green color. It is common in certain volcanic rocks; -- calledalso olivine and peridot. Sometimes used as a gem. The name was alsoearly used for yellow varieties of tourmaline and topaz.
chrysology: That branch of political economy which relates to theproduction of wealth.
chrysopa: A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.
chrysophane: A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow,crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition.
chrysophanic: Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane.Chrysophanic acid (Chem.), a yellow crystalline substance extractedfrom rhubarb, yellow dock, sienna, chrysarobin, etc., and shown to bea derivative of an anthracene. It is used in the treatment of skindiseases; -- called also rhein, rheic acid, rhubarbarin, etc.
chrysoprase: An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel. It hasa dull flinty luster, and is sometimes used in jewelry.
chrysoprasus: See Chrysoprase. Rev. xxi. 20.
chrysosperm: The seed of gold; a means of creating gold. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
chthonian: Designating, or pertaining to, gods or spirits of theunderworld; esp., relating to the underworld gods of the Greeks,whose worship is widely considered as more primitive in form thanthat of the Olympian gods. The characteristics of chthonian worshipare propitiatory and magical rites and generalized or euphemisticnames of the deities, which are supposed to have been primarilyghosts.
chthonic: Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions.[The] chthonic character of the wife of Zeus. Max Müller.
chub: A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidæ or Carp family.The common European species is Leuciscus cephalus; the cheven. InAmerica the name is applied to various fishes of the same family, ofthe genera Semotilus, Squalius, Ceratichthys, etc., and locally toseveral very different fishes, as the tautog, black bass, etc. Chubmackerel (Zoöl.), a species of mackerel (Scomber colias) in someyears found in abundance on the Atlantic coast, but absent in others;-- called also bull mackerel, thimble-eye, and big-eye mackerel.-- Chub sucker (Zoöl.), a fresh-water fish of the United States(Erimyzon sucetta); -- called also creekfish.
chub-faced: Having a plump, short face.
chubbed: Chubby. [R.] H. Brooke.
chubbedness: The state of being chubby.
chubby: Like a chub; plump, short, and thick. "Chubby faces." I.Taylor.
chuck: To call, as a hen her chickens. Dryden.
chuckle: A short, suppressed laugh; the expression of satisfaction,exultation, or derision.
chucklehead: A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce. [Low] Knowles.
chuckleheaded: Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid. Smart.
chud: To champ; to bite. [Obs.] A. Stafford.
chuet: Minced meat. [Obs.] Bacon.
chufa: A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers,native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; theearth almond.
chuff: A coarse or stupid fellow. Shak.
chuffily: Clownishly; surlily.
chuffiness: The quality of being chuffy.
chulan: The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used inChina for perfuming tea.
chum: A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old andintimate friend.
chump: A short, thick, heavy piece of wood. Morton. Chump end, thethick end; as, the chump end of a joint of meat. Dickens.
chunam: Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar. [India] Whitworth.
chunk: A short, thick piece of anything. [Colloq. U. S. & Prov. Eng.]
chunky: Short and thick. [U. S.] Kane.
chupatty: A kind of griddlecake of unleavened bread, used among thenatives of India. [Anglo-Indian]
church: To bless according to a prescribed form, or to unite with inpublicly returning thanks in church, as after deliverance from thedangers of childbirth; as, the churching of women.
church modes: The modes or scales used in ancient church music. SeeGregorian.
church-ale: A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of thededication of a church), at which much ale was used. Wright. Nares.
church-bench: A seat in the porch of a church. Shak.
church-haw: Churchyard. [Obs.] Chaucer.
churchdom: The institution, government, or authority of a church. [R.] Bp.Pearson.
churchgoer: One who attends church.
churchism: Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some churchorganization; sectarianism.
churchless: Without a church. T. Fuller.
churchlike: Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman.Shak.
churchliness: Regard for the church.
churchly: Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical.
churchmanly: Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman. Milman.
churchmanship: The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to thechurch.
churchship: State of being a church. South.
churchwardenship: The office of a churchwarden.
churchy: Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms. [Colloq.]
churchyard: The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; acemetery.Like graves in the holy churchyard. Shak.
churl: Churlish; rough; selfish. [Obs.] Ford.
churlishly: In a churlish manner.
churlishness: Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy.
churly: Rude; churlish; violent. Longfellow.
churn: A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, orotherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order toseparete the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter.
churr: A vibrant or whirring noise such as that made by some insects,as the cockchafer, or by some birds, as the nightjar, the partridge,etc.
churrus: A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudesfrom the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp.
churrworm: An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- calledalso fan cricket. Johnson.
chuse: See Choose. [Obs.]
chute: A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compoundedof various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.
chylaceous: Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle.
chylaqueous: Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of aliquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals.
chyle: A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in astate of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme bythe action of the intestinal juices. It is absorbed by the lacteals,and conveyed into the blood by the thoracic duct.
chylifaction: The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animalbodies; chylification, -- a digestive process.
chylifactive: Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to formchyle.
chyliferous: [Chyle + -ferous
chylific: Chylifactive.
chylification: The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction.
chylificatory: Chylifactive.
chylify: To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle.
chylopoetic: Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoeticorgans.
chylous: Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.
chyluria: A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fattymatter, giving it a milky appearance.
chyme: The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestinesjust after its passage from the stomach. It is separated in theintestines into chyle and excrement. See Chyle.
chymiferous: Bearing or containing chyme.
chymification: The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action ofgastric juice.
chymify: To form into chyme.
chymous: Of or pertaining to chyme.
chyometer: An instrument for measuring liquids. It consists of a pistonmoving in a tube in which is contained the liquid, the quantityexpelled being indicated by the graduation upon the piston rod.
ci-devant: Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a cidevant governor.
cibarious: Pertaining to food; edible. Johnson.
cibation: The process or operation of feeding the contents of thecrucilbe with fresh material. B. Jonson.
cibol: A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimescalled Welsh onion. Its fistular leaves areused in cookery.
ciborium: A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns,covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.
cicada: Any species of the genus Cicada. They are large hemipterousinsects, with nearly transparent wings. The male makes a shrill soundby pecular organs in the under side of the abdomen, consisting of apair of stretched membranes, acted upon by powerful muscles. A notedAmerican species (C. septendecim) is called the seventeen yearlocust. Another common species is the dogday cicada.
cicala: A cicada. See Cicada. "At eve a dry cicala sung." Tennison.
cicatrice: A cicatrix.
cicatricial: Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix. Dunglison.
cicatricle: The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in theyolk of an egg at which development begins.
cicatrisive: Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good forhealing of a wound.
cicatrix: The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuityand completes the process of healing in the latter, and whichsubsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar.
cicatrizant: A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a soreor wound, or the formation of a cicatrix.
cicatrization: The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of beingcicatrized.
cicatrize: To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in woundedor ulcerated flesh. Wiseman.
cicatrose: Full of scars. Craig.
cicely: Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis,Osmorrhiza, etc.
cicero: Pica type; -- so called by French printers.
cicerone: One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide.Every glib and loquacious hireling who shows strangers about theirpicture galleries, palaces, and ruins, is termed by them [theItalians] a cicerone, or a Cicero. Trench.
ciceronian: Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.
ciceronianism: Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; aCiceronian phrase or expression. "Great study in Ciceronianism, thechief abuse of Oxford." Sir P. Sidney.
cich-pea: The chick-pea. Holland.
cichoraceous: Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants ofwhich the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.
cicisbeism: The state or conduct of a cicisbeo.
ciclatoun: A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.[Obs.] [Written also checklaton, chekelatoun.]His robe was of ciclatoun, That coste many a Jane. Chaucer.
cicurate: To tame. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
cicuration: The act of taming. [Obs.] Ray.
cicuta: a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the waterhemlock or cowbane is best known.
cicutoxin: The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted asa poisonous gummy substance.
cider: The expressed juice of apples. It is used as a beverage, formaking vinegar, and for other purposes.
ciderist: A maker of cider. [Obs.] Mortimer.
ciderkin: A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace inwater.Ciderkin is made for common drinking, and supplies the place of smallbeer. Mortimer.
cierge: A wax candle used in religous rites.
cigar: A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking. Cigar fish (Zoöl.),a fish (Decapterus punctatus), allied to the mackerel, found on thecoast of the Gulf of Mexico.
cigarette: A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper forsmoking.
cilia: The eyelashes.
ciliary: Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes. Also applied to specialparts of the eye itself; as, the ciliary processes of the choroidcoat; the ciliary muscle, etc.
ciliata: One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia.In some species the cilia cover the body generally, in others theyform a band around the mouth.
cilice: A kind of haircloth undergarment. Southey.
cilician: Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor.-- n.
cilicious: Made, or consisting, of hair. [Obs.]A Cilicious or sackcloth habit. Sir T. Browne.
ciliograde: Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, theciliograde Medusæ.
cilium: See Cilia.
cill: See Sill., n. a foundation.
cillosis: A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.
cima: A kind of molding. See Cyma.
cimar: See Simar.
cimbal: A kind of confectionery or cake. [Obs.] Nares.
cimbia: A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if tostrengthen it. [Written also cimia.]
cimbrian: Of or pertaining to the Cimbri.-- n.
cimbric: Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting NorthernGermany.-- n.
cimeliarch: A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; achurchwarden. [Obs.] Bailey.
cimeter: See Scimiter.
cimex: A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the bestknown example. See Bedbug.
cimia: See Cimbia.
cimiss: The bedbug. [Obs.] Wright.
cimolite: A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.
cinchona: A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru andadjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producinga medicinal bark of great value.
cinchonaceous: Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produceit.
cinchonic: Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona. Mayne.
cinchonidine: One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in redcinchona bark. It is a white crystalline substance, C19H22N2O, with abitter taste and qualities similar to, but weaker than, quinine; --sometimes called also cinchonidia.
cinchonine: One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with andresembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia.
cinchonism: A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use ofquinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.
cinchonize: To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or withcinchona.
cincinnati epoch: An epoch at the close of the American lower Silurian system.The rocks are well developed near Cincinnati, Ohio. The groupincludes the Hudson River and Lorraine shales of New york.
cincinnus: A form of monochasium in which the lateral branches arisealternately on opposite sides of the false axis; -- called alsoscorpioid cyme. --Cin*cin"nal (#), a.
cincture: The fillet, listel, or band next to the apophyge at theextremity of the shaft of a column.
cinctured: Having or wearing a cincture or gridle.
cindery: Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders.
cinefaction: Cineration; reduction to ashes. [Obs.]
cinematics: See Kinematics.
cinematograph: A machine, combining magic lantern and kinetoscope features,for projecting on a screen a series of pictures, moved rapidly (25 to50 a second) and intermittently before an objective lens, andproducing by persistence of vision the illusion of continuous motion;a moving-picture machine; also, any of several other machines ordevices producing moving pictorial effects. Other common names forthe cinematograph are animatograph, biograph, bioscope, electrograph,electroscope, kinematograph, kinetoscope, veriscope, vitagraph,vitascope, zoögyroscope, zoöpraxiscope, etc.
cinematographer: One who exhibits moving pictures or who takes chronophotographsby the cinematograph. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic (#), a. --Cin`e*mat`o*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
cinemograph: An integrating anemometer.
cineraceous: Like ashes; ash-colored; cinerous.
cineraria: A Linnæan genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly fromSouth Africa. Several species are cultivated for ornament.
cinerary: Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes. Cinerary urns, vesselsused by the ancients to preserve the ashes of the dead when burned.
cineration: The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction.
cinereous: Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.
cinerescent: Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of woodashes.
cineritious: Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the corticalsubstance of the brain.
cinerulent: Full of ashes. [Obs.]
cingalese: A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitiveinhabitants; also (sing.),
cingle: A girth. [R.] See Surcingle.
cinnabar: Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals,and also in red or brown amorphous masses. It is used in medicine.
cinnabarine: Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar,or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand.
cinnamene: Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtainedfrom cinnamic acid). See Styrene.
cinnamic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon. Cinnamic acid(Chem.), a white, crystalline, odorless substance.C6H5.C2H2C2H2.CO2H, formerly obtained from storax and oil ofcinnamon, now made from certain benzene derivatives in largequantities, and used for the artificial production of indigo.
cinnamomic: See Cinnamic.
cinnamone: A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone ofcinnamic acid.
cinnamyl: The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds.[Formerly written also cinnamule.]
cinnoline: A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline,obtained from certain complex diazo compounds.
cinque: Five; the number five in dice or cards.
cinque ports: Five English ports, to which peculiar privileges were ancientlyaccorded; -- viz., Hastings, Romney, Hythe, Dover, and Sandwich;afterwards increased by the addition of Winchelsea, Rye, and someminor places. Baron of the Cinque Ports. See under Baron.
cinque-pace: A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which wereregulated by the number five. [Obs.] Nares. Shak.
cinque-spotted: Five-spotted. [R.] Shak.
cinquecento: The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art orliterature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style.
cinquefoil: The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla;-- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leavesto the fingers of the hand.
cinter: See Center.
cinura: The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms;the bristletails. See Bristletail, and Lepisma.
cion: See Scion.The cion overruleth the stock; and the stock is but passive, andgiveth aliment, but no motion, to the graft. Bacon.
cipher: A character [0] which, standing by itself, expresses nothing,but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases itsvalue tenfold.
cipherer: One who ciphers.
cipherhood: Nothingness. [R.] Goodwin.
cipolin: A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones.It consists of calcium carbonate, with zones and cloudings of talc.
cippus: A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having aninscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as forindicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchralinscriptions, etc. Gwilt.
circ: An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus. [R.] T. Warton.
circar: A district, or part of a province. See Sircar. [India]
circassian: Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia.-- n.
circean: Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol andPerseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victimsand then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious;as, a Circean draught.
circinal: Circinate.
circinate: Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- aterm used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns. Gray.
circle: An instrument of observation, the graduated limb of whichconsists of an entire circle.
circled: Having the form of a circle; round. "Monthly changes in hercircled orb." Shak.
circler: A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wanderingaround as a stroller; an itinerant poet. Also, a name given to thecyclic poets. See under Cyclic, a. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
circocele: See Cirsocele.
circuit: To move in a circle; to go round; to circulate. [Obs.] J.Philips.
circuiteer: A circuiter. Pope.
circuiter: One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge. [R.] R.Whitlock.
circuition: The act of going round; circumlocution. [R.]
circuitous: Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, acircuitous road; a circuitous manner of accompalishing an end.-- Cir*cu"i*tous*ly, adv.-- Cir*cu"i*tous*ness, n.
circuity: A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundaboutway of proceeding.
circulable: That may be circulated.
circularity: The quality or state of being circular; a circular form.
circularly: In a circular manner.
circulary: Circular; illogical. [Obs. & .] "Cross and circulary speeches."Hooker.
circulate: To cause to pass from place to place, or from person to person;to spread; as, to circulate a report; to circulate bills of credit.Circulating pump. See under Pump.
circulation: The movement of the blood in the blood-vascular system, bywhich it is brought into close relations with almost every livingelementary constituent. Also, the movement of the sap in the vesselsand tissues of plants.
circulative: Promoting circulation; circulating. [R.] Coleridge.
circulator: One who, or that which, circulates.
circulatorious: Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant.[Obs.] "Circulatorious jugglers." Barrow.
circulatory: Subserving the purposes of circulation; as, circulatory organs;of or pertaining to the organs of circulation; as, circulatorydiseases.
circulet: A circlet. [Obs.] Spenser.
circuline: Proceeding in a circle; circular. [Obs.] "With motioncirculine". Dr. H. More.
circum-: A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words,and signifying around or about.
circumagitate: To agitate on all sides. Jer. Taylor.
circumambage: A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness. [Obs.] S.Richardson.
circumambiency: The act of surrounding or encompassing. Sir T. Browne.
circumambient: Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing."The circumambient heaven." J. Armstrong.
circumambulate: To walk round about.-- Cir`cum*am`bu*la"tion, n.
circumbendibus: A roundabout or indirect way. [Jocular] Goldsmith.
circumcenter: The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle.
circumcise: To purify spiritually.
circumciser: One who performs circumcision. Milton.
circumclusion: Act of inclosing on all sides. [R.]
circumcursation: The act of running about; also, rambling language. [Obs.]Barrow.
circumdenudation: Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object. Hills ofcircumdenudation, hills which have been produced by surface erosion;the elevations which have been left, after denudation of a mass ofhigh ground. Jukes.
circumduce: To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducingevidence. Sir W. Scott.
circumduct: To contravene; to nullify; as, to circumduct acts ofjudicature. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
circumduction: The rotation of a limb round an imaginary axis, so as todescribe a concial surface.
circumesophagal: Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nervecommissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.
circumesophageal: Circumesophagal.
circumfer: To bear or carry round. [Obs.] Bacon.
circumference: To include in a circular space; to bound. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
circumferential: Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling;circuitous. Parkhurst.
circumferentially: So as to surround or encircle.
circumflant: Blowing around. [Obs.] Evelyn.
circumflection: See Circumflexion.
circumflex: To mark or pronounce with a circumflex. Walker.
circumfluence: A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.
circumfulgent: Shining around or about.
circumfuse: To pour round; to spread round.His army circumfused on either wing. Milton.
circumfusile: Capable of being poured or spread round. "Circumfusile gold."Pope.
circumfusion: The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of beingspread round. Swift.
circumgestation: The act or process of carrying about. [Obs.]Circumgestation of the eucharist to be adored. Jer. Taylor.
circumgyrate: To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circularmotion. Ray.
circumgyration: The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.A certain turbulent and irregular circumgyration. Holland.
circumgyratory: Moving in a circle; turning round. Hawthorne.
circumgyre: To circumgyrate. [Obs.]
circumincession: The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons ofthe Trinity.
circumjacence: Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering ou every side.
circumjacent: Lying round; borderong on every side. T. Fuller.
circumjovial: One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter. [Obs.]Derham.
circumlittoral: Adjointing the shore.
circumlocution: The use of many words to express an idea that might beexpressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrese.the plain Billingagate way of calling names . . . would saveabundance of time lost by circumlocution. Swift.Circumlocution office, a term of riducle for a governmental officewhere business is delayed by passing through the hands of differentofficials.
circumlocutional: Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic;circuitous.
circumlocutory: Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic. Shenstone.The officials set to work in regular circumlocutory order. Chambers'sJournal.
circummeridian: About, or near, the meridian.
circummure: To encompass with a wall. Shak.
circumnavigable: Capable of being sailed round. Ray.
circumnavigate: To sail completely round.Having circumnavigated the whole earth. T. Fuller.
circumnavigation: The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round. Arbuthnot.
circumnavigator: One who sails round. W. Guthrie.
circumnutate: To pass through the stages of circumnutation.
circumnutation: The successive bowing or bending in different directions of thegrowing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbingplants.
circumpolar: About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around thepole without setting; as, circumpolar stars.
circumposition: The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state ofbeing so placed. Evelyn.
circumrotate: To rotate about. [R.]
circumrotation: The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel;circumvolution; the state of being whirled round. J. Gregory.
circumscissile: Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around(a capsule or pod). See Illust. of Pyxidium.
circumscribable: Capable of being circumscribed.
circumscribe: To draw a line around si as to touch at certain points withoutcutting. See Inscribe, 5.
circumscriber: One who, or that which, circumscribes.
circumscriptible: Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds.
circumscriptive: Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limitsor form of.
circumscriptively: In a limited manner.
circumscriptly: In a literal, limited, or narrow manner. [R.] Milton.
circumspect: Attentive to all the circustances of a case or the probableconsequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.
circumspection: Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case;caution; watchfulness.With silent circumspection, unespied. Milton.
circumspective: Looking around everi way; cautious; careful of consequences;watchful of danger. "Circumspective eyes." Pope.
circumspectively: Circumspectly.
circumspectly: In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.
circumspectness: Vigilance un guarding against evil from every quarter; caution.[Travel] forces circumspectness on those abroad, who at home arenursed in security. Sir H. Wotton.
circumstance: Condition in regard to worldly estate; state of property;situation; surroundings.When men are easy in their circumstances, they are naturally enemiesto innovations. Addison.Not a circumstance, of no account. [Colloq.] -- Under thecircumstances, taking all things into consideration.
circumstant: Standing or placed around; surrounding. [R.] "Circumstantbodies." Sir K. Digby.
circumstantiable: Capable of being circumstantiated. [Obs.] Jer Taylor.
circumstantial: Something incidental to the main subject, but of lessimportance; opposed to an essential; -- generally in the plural; as,the circumstantials of religion. Addison.
circumstantiality: The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial;particularity or minuteness of detail. "I will endeavor to describewith sufficient circumstantiality." De Quincey.
circumterraneous: Being or dwelling around the earth. "Circumterraneous demouns."H. Hallywell.
circumundulate: To flow round, as waves. [R.]
circumvallate: To surround with a rampart or wall. Johnson.
circumvection: The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being socarried.
circumvent: To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; todecieve; to delude; to get around.I circumvented whom I could not gain. Dryden.
circumvention: The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud;deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.A school in which he learns sly circumvention. Cowper.
circumventive: Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.
circumventor: One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.
circumvest: To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest. [Obs.]Circumvested with much prejudice. Sir H. Wotton.
circumvolant: Flying around.The circumvolant troubles of humanity. G. Macdonald.
circumvolation: The act of flying round. [R.]
circumvolve: To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circularmotion. Herrick.
circus: A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats ofwood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another, and dividedlengthwise through the middle by a barrier around which the track orcourse was laid out. It was used for chariot races, games, and publicshows.
cirl bunting: A European bunting (Emberiza cirlus).
cirrate: Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.
cirrhiferous: See Cirriferous.
cirrhose: Same as Cirrose.
cirrhosis: A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller insize and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimesapplied to similar changes in other organs, caused by increase in thefibrous framework and decrease in the proper substance of the organ.
cirrhotic: Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as,cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.
cirrhous: See Cirrose.
cirrhus: Same as Cirrus.
cirri: See Cirrus.
cirriferous: Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.
cirriform: Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of bothanimals and plants.
cirrigerous: Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlikeappendages.
cirrigrade: Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.
cirriped: One of the Cirripedia.
cirripedia: An order of Crustacea including the barnacles. When adult, theyhave a calcareous shell composed of several pieces. From the openingof the shell the animal throws out a group of curved legs, lookinglike a delicate curl, whence the name of the group. See Anatifa.
cirro-cumulus: See under Cloud.
cirro-stratus: See under Cloud.
cirrobranchiata: A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendagesnear the mouth; the Scaphopoda.
cirrostomi: The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirriaround the mouth; the Leptocardia. See Amphioxus.
cirrous: Cirrose.
cirrus: A tendril or clasper.
cirsocele: The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.
cirsoid: Varicose. Cirsoid aneurism, a disease of an artery in which itbecomes dilated and elongated, like a varicose vein.
cirsotomy: Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.Dunglison.
cis-: A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in Englishwords, and signifying on this side.
cisalpine: On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is,on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.
cisatlantic: On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern orthe western side, according to the standpoint of the writer. Story.
cisco: The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of theGreat Lakes of North America. The name is also applied to C. Hoyi, arelated species of Lake Michigan.
ciselure: The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.Weale.
cisleithan: On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.
cismontane: On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.
cispadane: On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; thatis, on the south side.
cissoid: A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving twocelebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a planeangle, and to construct two geometrical means between two givenstraight lines.
cist: A box or chest. Specifically
cisted: Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.
cistercian: A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order,established in 1098 at Cîteaux, in France, by Robert, abbot ofMolesme. For two hundred years the Cistercians followed the rule ofSt. Benedict in all its rigor.-- a.
cistic: See Cystic.
cit: A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- usedcontemptuously. "Insulted as a cit". JohnsonWhich past endurance sting the tender cit. Emerson.
citable: Capable of being cited.
citadel: A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city andfortifications, and intended as a final point of defense. Syn. -Stronghold. See Fortress.
citation: A reference to decided cases, or books of authority, to prove apoint in law.
citator: One who cites. [R]
citatory: Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.
cite: To notify of a proceeding in court. Abbot
citer: One who cites.
citess: A city woman [R.]
cithara: An ancient instrument resembling the harp.
citharistic: Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.
cithern: See Cittern.
citicism: The manners of a cit or citizen.
citified: Aping, or having, the manners of a city.
citigradae: A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula andthe wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture theirprey by rapidly running and jumping. See Wolf spider.
citigrade: Pertaining to the Citigradæ.-- n.
citiner: One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen. [Obs.] Champan.
citizeness: A female citizen. [R.]
citizenship: The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.
citole: A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer. [Obs.]
citraconic: Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristicsof, citric and aconitic acids. Citraconic acid (Chem.), a white,crystalline, deliquescent substance, C3H4(CO2H)2, obtained bydistillation of citric acid. It is a compound of the ethylene series.
citrange: A citrous fruit produced by a cross between the sweet orangeand the trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata). It is more acid andhas a more pronounced aroma than the orange; the tree is hardier.There are several varieties.
citrate: A salt of citric acid.
citric: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as,citric acid. Citric acid (Chem.), an organic acid, C3H4OH.(CO2H)3,extracted from lemons, currants, gooseberies, etc., as a whitecrystalline substance, having a pleasant sour taste.
citrination: The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon;esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stoneindicated by its assuming a deep yellow color. Thynne.
citrine: Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.Citrine ointment (Med.), a yellowish mercurial ointment, theunquentum hydrargyri nitratis.
citron: A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantlyaromatic. The thick rind, when candied, is the citron of commerce.
citrus: A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc.,originally natives of southern Asia.
cittern: An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire andplayed with a quill or plectrum. [Written also cithern.] Shak.
cittern-head: Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a citternusually ended with a carved head. Marsion
city: Of or pertaining to a city. Shak. City council. See underCouncil.-- City court, The municipal court of a city. [U. S.] -- City ward,a watchman, or the collective watchmen, of a city. [Obs.] Fairfax.
cive: Same as Chive.
civet: The animal that produces civet (Viverra civetta); -- calledalso civet cat. It is carnivorous, from two to three feet long, andof a brownish gray color, with transverse black bands and spots onthe body and tail. It is a native of northern Africa and of Asia. Thename is also applied to other species.
civic: Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating toman as a member of society, or to civil affairs. Civic crown (Rom.Antiq.), a crown or garland of oak leaves and acorns, bestowed on asoldier who had saved the life of a citizen in battle.
civicism: The principle of civil government.
civics: The science of civil government.
civil service commission: In the United States, a commission appointed by the President,consisting of three members, not more than two of whom may beadherents of the same party, which has the control, throughexaminations, of appointments and promotions in the classified civilservice. It was created by act of Jan, 16, 1883 (22 Stat. 403).
civil service reform: The substitution of business principles and methods forpolitical methods in the conduct of the civil service. esp. the meritsystem instead of the spoils system in making appointments to office.
civilist: A civilian. [R.] Warbur
civilizable: Capable of being civilized.
civilization: Rendering a criminal process civil. [Obs.]
civilized: Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts,learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.Sale of conscience and duty in open market is not reconcilable withthe present state of civilized society. J. Quincy.
civilizer: One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.
civily: In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges;politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.
civism: State of citizenship. [R.] Dyer.
cizar: To clip with scissors. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
cizars: Scissors. [Obs.] Swift.
cize: Bulk; largeness. [Obs.] See Size.
clabber: Milk curdled so as to become thick.
clachan: A small village containing a church. [Scot.] Sir W. ScottSitting at the clachon alehouse. R. L. Stevenson.
clad: To clothe. [Obs.] Holland.
cladocera: An order of the Entomostraca.
cladophyll: A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliageof the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax(Myrsiphillum).
claggy: Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.
claik: See Clake.
claim: To be entitled to anything; to deduce a right or title; to havea claim.We must know how the first ruler, from whom any one claims, came byhis authority. Locke.
claimable: Capable of being claimed.
claimant: One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.
claimer: One who claims; a claimant.
claimless: Having no claim.
clair-obscur: See Chiaroscuro.
clairaudience: Act of hearing, or the ability to hear, sounds not normallyaudible; -- usually claimed as a special faculty of spiritualisticmediums, or the like.
clairaudient: Pertaining to, or characterized by, clairaudience.
claire: A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters.
clairvoyance: A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state,of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normalcondition.
clairvoyant: Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in amesmeric state which are not present to the senses.
clam: A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that areedible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam(Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima),and other species of the United States. The name is said to have beengiven originally to the Tridacna gigas, a huge East Indian bivalve.You shall scarce find any bay or shallow shore, or cove of sand,where you may not take many clampes, or lobsters, or both, at yourpleasure. Capt. John Smith (1616).Clams, or clamps, is a shellfish not much unlike a coclke; it liethunder the sand. Wood (1634).
clamant: Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorousky. "Clamant children."Thomson.
clamation: The act of crying out. Sir T. Browne.
clamatores: A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles arebut little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.
clamatorial: Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.
clambake: The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, betweenlayers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such anoccasion.
clamber: To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also usedfiguratively.The narrow street that clambered toward the mill. Tennyson.
clamjamphrie: Low, worthless people; the rabble. [Scot.] Jamieson.
clammily: In a clammy manner. "Oozing so clammily." Hood.
clamminess: State of being clammy or viscous.
clammy: Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft andsticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a coldperspiration.
clamor: To utter loud sounds or outcries; to vociferate; to complain;to make importunate demands.The obscure bird Clamored the livelong night. Shak.
clamorer: One who clamors.
clamorous: Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling ordemanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud;turbulent. "My young ones were clamorous for a morning's excursion."Southey.-- Clam"or*ous*ly, adv.-- Clam"or*ous*ness, n.
clamp: A thick plank on the inner part of a ship's side, used tosustuan the ends of beams.
clamper: An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot orshoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper. Kane.
clan-na-gael: A secret society of Irish Fenians founded in Philadelphia in1881.
clancular: Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed. [Obs.]Not close and clancular, but frank and open. Barrow.
clancularly: privately; secretly. [Obs.]
clandestine: Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usuallyfor an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, aclandestine marriage. Locke.
clandestinity: Privacy or secrecy. [R.]
clang: To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.The fierce Caretes . . . clanged their sounding arms. Prior.
clangor: A sharp, harsh, ringing sound. Dryden.
clangorous: Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.
clangous: Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound. [Obs.]
clanjamfrie: Same as Clamjamphrie. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
clank: A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallicor other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or lessresounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound thanclink.But not in chains to pine, His spirit withered with tyeur clank.Byron.
clankless: Without a clank. Byreon.
clannish: Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan;disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by thetraditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan.-- Clan"nish*ly, adv.-- Clan"nish*ness, n.
clanship: A state of being united togheter as in a clan; an associationunder a chieftain.
clansman: One belonging to the same clan with another.
clap: The nether part of the beak of a hawk. Clap dish. See Clackdish, under Clack, n.-- Clap net, a net for taking birds, made to close or clap together.
clapboard: To cover with clapboards; as, to clapboard the sides of ahouse. [U. S.] Bartlett.
clape: A bird; the flicker.
clapper: A rabbit burrow. [Obs.]
claps: Variant of Clasp [Obs.] Chaucer.
claptrap: Contrived for the purpose of making a show, or gainingapplause; deceptive; unreal.
claque: A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatricalexhibition.
claqueur: One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.
clare: A nun of the order of St.Clare.
clare-obscure: See Chiaroscuro.
clarence: A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seatfor the driver.
clarendon: A style of type having a narrow and heave face. It is made inall sizes.
claret: The name firat given in England to the red wines of M
claribella: A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.
clarichord: A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; --called also manichord and clavichord.
clarigate: To declare war with certain ceremonies. [Obs.] Holland.
clarinet: A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fullertone than the oboe, which has a double reed. It is the leadinginstrument in a military band.
clarino: A reed stop in an organ.
clarion: A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.He sounds his imperial clarion along the whole line of battle. E.Everett.
clarionet: See Clarinet.
clarisonus: Having a clear sound. [Obs.] Ash.
claritude: Clearness; splendor. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
clarity: Clearness; brightness; splendor.Floods, in whose more than crystal clarity, Innumerable virgin gracesrow. Beaumont.
claro-obscuro: See Chiaroscuro.
clarre: Wine with a mixture of honey and species. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clart: To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
clarty: Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
clary: To make a loud or shrill noise. [Obs.] Golding.
clash: To strike noisily against or together.
clash gear: A change-speed gear in which the gears are changed by slidingendwise.
clashingly: With clashing.
claspered: Furnished with tendrils.
class: One of the sections into which a church or congregation isdivided, and which is under the supervision of a class leader. Classof a curve (Math.), the kind of a curve as expressed by the number oftangents that can be drawn from any point to the curve. A circle isof the second class.-- Class meeting (Methodist Church), a meeting of a class under thecharge of a class leader, for counsel and relegious instruction.
class day: In American colleges and universities, a day of thecommencement season on which the senior class celebrates thecompletion of its course by exercises conducted by the members, suchas the reading of the class histories and poem, the delivery of theclass oration, the planting of the class ivy, etc.
classible: Capable of being classed.
classicalist: One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.Ruskin.
classicism: A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism. C. Kingsley.
classicist: One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.
classifiable: Capable of being classified.
classific: Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.
classification: The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution intogroups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some commonrelations or affinities. Artificial classification. (Science) Seeunder Artifitial.
classificatory: Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification. "Aclassificatory system." Earle.
classifier: One who classifies.
classify: To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system;to arrnge in sets according to some method founded on commonproperties or characters.
classis: An ecclesiastical body or judicat
classmate: One who is in the same class with another, as at school orcollege.
clastic: Fragmental; made up of brokas, sandstone is a clastic rock.
clatch: To daub or smear, as with lime; to make or finish in a slipshodway. [Scot.]
clathrate: Shaped like a lattice; cancellate. Gray.
clatter: To make a rattling noise with.You clatter still your brazen kettle. Swift.
clatterer: One who clatters.
clatteringly: With clattering.
claude lorraine glass: A slightly convex mirror, commonly of black glass, used as atoy for viewing the reflected landscape.
claudent: Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.[R.] Jonson
claudicant: Limping. [R.]
claudication: A halting or limping. [R.] Tatler.
clause: A subordinate portion or a subdivision of a sentence containinga subject and its predicate.
claustral: Cloistral. Ayliffe
claustrum: A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemiphere of thebrain of man.-- Claus"tral, a.
clausular: Consisting of, or having, clauses. Smart.
clausure: The act of shutting up or confining; confinement. [R.] Geddes.
clave: imp. of Cleave. [Obs.]
clavecin: The harpsichord.
clavel: See Clevis.
clavellate: See Clavate.
clavellated: Said of potash, probably in reference to its having beenobtained from billets of wood by burning. [Obs.]
claver: See Clover. Holland.
clavichord: A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte.See Clarichord.
clavicle: The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, orshoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone. Inman each clavicle is shaped like the letter
clavicorn: Having club-shaped antennæ. See Antennæ -- n.
clavicornes: A group of beetles having club-shaped antennæ.
clavicular: Of or pertaining to the clavicle.
clavier: The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.
claviform: Club-shaped; clavate. Craig.
claviger: One who carries the keys of any place.
clavigerous: Bearing a club or a key.
clavis: A key; a glossary.
clavus: A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.
clavy: A mantelpiece.
claw: A slender appendage or process, formed like a claw, as the baseof petals of the pink. Gray. Claw hammer, a hammer with one end ofthe metallic head cleft for use in extracting nails, etc.-- Claw hammer coat, a dress coat of the swallowtail pattern.[Slang] -- Claw sickness, foot rot, a disease affecting sheep.
clawback: A flatterer or sycophant. [Obs.] "Take heed of theseclawbacks." Latimer.
clawed: Furnished with claws. N. Grew.
clawless: Destitute of claws.
clay: Earth in general, as representing the elementary particles ofthe human body; hence, the human body as formed from such particles.I also am formed out of the clay. Job xxxiii. 6.The earth is covered thick with other clay, Which her own clay shallcover. Byron.Bowlder clay. See under Bowlder.-- Brick clay, the common clay, containing some iron, and thereforeturning red when burned.-- Clay cold, cold as clay or earth; lifeless; inanimate.-- Clay ironstone, an ore of iron consisting of the oxide orcarbonate of iron mixed with clay or sand.-- Clay marl, a whitish, smooth, chalky clay.-- Clay mill, a mill for mixing and tempering clay; a pug mill.-- Clay pit, a pit where clay is dug.-- Clay slate (Min.), argillaceous schist; argillite.-- Fatty clays, clays having a greasy feel; they are chemicalcompounds of water, silica, and aluminia, as halloysite, bole, etc.-- Fire clay , a variety of clay, entirely free from lime, iron, oran alkali, and therefore infusible, and used for fire brick.-- Porcelain clay, a very pure variety, formed directly from thedecomposition of feldspar, and often called kaolin.-- Potter's clay, a tolerably pure kind, free from iron.
clay-brained: Stupid. [Obs.] Shak.
clayes: Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers,to cover lodgments. [Obs.]
clayey: Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay;like clay.
clayish: Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.
claymore: A large two-handed sword used formerly by the ScottishHighlanders.
claytonia: An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; --sometimes called spring beauty.
clean: Free from ceremonial defilement.
clean-cut: See Clear-cut.
clean-limbed: With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbedyoung fellow. Dickens.
clean-timbered: Well-propotioned; symmetrical. [Poetic] Shak.
cleaner: One who, or that which, cleans.
cleanlily: In a cleanly manner.
cleanliness: State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.Cleanliness from head to heel. Swift.
cleansable: Capable of being cleansed. Sherwood.
cleanse: To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection,guilt, etc.; to clean.If we walk in the light . . . the blood of Jesus Christ his soncleanseth us from all sin. 1 John i. 7.Can'st thou not minister to a mind diseased, And with some sweetoblivious antidote Cleanse the suffed bosom of that perilous stuffWhich weighs upon the heart Shak.
cleanser: One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent. Arbuthnot.
clear: Full extent; distance between extreme limits; especially; thedistance between the nearest surfaces of two bodies, or the spacebetween walls; as, a room ten feet square in the clear.
clear-headed: Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent."He was laborious and clear-headed." Macaulay.-- Clear"-head`ed*ness, n.
clear-seeing: Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clearunderstanding.
clear-shining: Shining brightly. Shak.
clear-sighted: Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason
clear-sightedness: Acute discernment.
clearage: The act of reforming anything; clearance. [R.]
clearance: The distance by which one object clears another, as thedistance between the piston and cylinder head at the end of a strokein a steam engine, or the least distance between the point of acogwell tooth and the bottom of a space between teeth of a wheel withwhich it engages. Clearance space (Steam engine), the space inclosedin one end of the cylinder, between the valve or valves and thepiston, at the beginning of a stroke; waste room. It includes thespace caused by the piston's clearance and the space in ports,passageways, etc. Its volume is often expressed as a certainproportion of the volume swept by the piston in a single stroke.
clearcole: A priming of size mixed with whiting or white lead, used inhouse painting, etc.; also, a size upon which gold leaf is applied ingilding.
clearedness: The quality of being cleared.Imputed by his friends to the clearedness, by his foes to thesearedness, of his conscience. T. Fuller.
clearer: A tool of which the hemp for lines and twines, used bysailmakers, is finished.
clearly: In a clear manner.
clearness: The quality or state of being clear.
clearstarch: To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping withthe hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.
clearstarcher: One who clearstarches.
clearwing: A lepidop terous insect with partially transparent wings, ofthe family Ægeriadæ, of which the currant and peach-tree borers areexamples.
cleat: A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to somethingin order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.
cleavable: Capable of cleaving or being divided.
cleavage: The quality possessed by many crystallized substances ofsplitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which thecohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smoothsurfaces; the direction of the dividing plane; a fragment obtained bycleaving, as of a diamond. See Parting.
cleave: To part; to open; to crack; to separate; as parts of bodies;as, the ground cleaves by frost.The Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst. Zech. xiv. 4.
cleavelandite: A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.
cleaver: One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher'sinstrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.
cleavers: A species of Galium (G. Aparine), having a fruit set withhooked bristles, which adhere to whatever they come in contact with;-- called also, goose grass, catchweed, etc.
cleche: Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of thecolor of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the firstbearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing. CompareVoided.
clechy: See Cléché.
cledge: The upper stratum of fuller's earth.
cledgy: Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.Halliwell.
clee: A claw. [Holland.
cleek: To seize; clutch; snatch; catch; pluck.
clef: A character used in musical notation to determine the positionand pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.
cleft: from Cleave.
cleft-footed: Having a cloven foot.
cleftgraft: To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.Mortimer.
cleg: A small breeze or horsefly. [North of Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson.
clem: To starve; to famish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
clematis: A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers,having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- calledalso virgin's bower.
clemence: Clemency. [Obs.] Spenser.
clement: Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate. Shak.-- Clem"ent*ly, adv.
clementine: Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St.Clement of Rome and thespurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and hiscompilations of canon law.
clench: See Clinch.
clepe: To call, or name. [Obs.]That other son was cleped Cambalo. Chaucer.
clepsine: A genus of freshwater leeches, furnished with a proboscis. Theyfeed upon mollusks and worms.
clepsydra: A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by thegraduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture.See Illust. in Appendix.
cleptomania: See Kleptomania.
clerestory: Same as Clearstory.
clergeon: A chorister boy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clergial: Learned; erudite; clercial. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clergical: Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.[Obs.] Milton.
clergyable: Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, aclergyable felony. Blackstone.
clergyman: An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to peach thegospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restrictedto a minister of the Established Church.
cleric: A clerk, a clergyman. [R.] Bp. Horsley.
clericalism: An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order;undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.
clericity: The state of being a clergyman.
clerk-ale: A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk. [Eng.] T. Warton.
clerkless: Unlearned. [Obs.] E. Waterhouse.
clerklike: Scholarlike. [Obs.] Shak.
clerkliness: Scholarship. [Obs.]
clerkly: Of or pertaining to a clerk. Cranmer.
clerkship: State, quality, or business of a clerk.
cleromancy: A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.
cleronomy: Inheritance; heritage.
clerstory: See Clearstory.
cleverish: Somewhat clever. [R.]
cleverly: In a clever manner.Never was man so clever absurd. C. Smart.
cleverness: The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.
clevis: A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the twoends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of aplow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.;-- called also clavel, clevy.
clew: To move of draw (a sail or yard) by means of the clew garnets,clew lines, etc.; esp. to draw up the clews of a square sail to theyard. To clew down (Naut.), to force (a yard) down by hauling on theclew lines.-- To clew up (Naut.), to draw (a sail) up to the yard, as forfurling.
cliche: A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, orlettering, in relief. Cliché casting, a mode of obtaining animpression from a die or woodcut, or the like, by striking itsuddenly upon metal which has been fused and is just becoming solid;also, the casting so obtained.
click: To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises),as by gentle striking; to tick.The varnished clock that clicked behind the door. Goldsmith.
click beetle: See Elater.
clicker: One who as has charge of the work of a companionship.
clicky: Resembling a click; abounding in clicks. "Their strange clickylanguage." The Century.
clidastes: A genus of exinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus.See Illust. in Appendix.
cliency: State of being a client.
client: A citizen who put himself under the protection of a man ofdistinction and influence, who was called his patron.
cliental: Of or pertaining to a client.A dependent and cliental relation. Burke.I sat down in the cliental chair. Dickens.
cliented: Supplied with clients. [R.]The least cliented pettifiggers. R. Carew.
clientelage: See Clientele, n., 2.
clientship: Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of apatron. Dryden.
cliff: A high, steep rock; a precipice. Cliff swallow (Zoöl.), a NorthAmerican swallow (Petrochelidon lunifrons), which builds its nestagainst cliffs; the eaves swallow.
cliff limestone: A series of limestone strata found in Ohio and farther west,presenting bluffs along the rivers and valleys, formerly supposed tobe of one formation, but now known to be partly Silurian and partlyDevonian.
cliffy: Having cliffs; broken; craggy.
clift: A cliff. [Obs.]That gainst the craggy clifts did loudly roar. Spenser.
clifted: Broken; fissured.Climb the Andeclifted side. Grainger.
climacter: See Climacteric, n.
climacteric: Relating to a climacteric; critical.
climacterical: See Climacteric. Evelyn.
climactic: Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, aclimax, or ascending series.
climatal: Climatic. Dunglison.
climatarchic: Presiding over, or regulating, climates.
climate: One of thirty regions or zones, parallel to the equator, intowhich the surface of the earth from the equator to the pole wasdivided, according to the successive increase of the length of themidsummer day.
climatic: Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, aclimate.
climatical: Climatic.
climatize: To acclimate or become acclimated.
climatography: A description of climates.
climatological: Of or pertaining to climatology.
climatologist: One versed in, or who studies, climatology.
climatology: The science which treats of climates and investigates theirphenomena and causes. Brande & C.
climature: A climate. [Obs.] Shak.
climax: A figure of which the parts of a sentence or paragraph are soarranged that each sicceeding one rise"Tribulation worketh patience, patience experience, and experiencehope" -- a happy climax. J. D. Forbes.
climb: To ascend or creep upward by twining about a support, or byattaching itself by tendrills, rootlets, etc., to a support orupright surface.
climbable: Capable of being climbed.
climber: One who, or that which, climbs:(a) (Bot.) A plant that climbs.(b) (Zoöl.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.
climbing: p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb. Climbing fern. See under Fern.-- Climbing perch. (Zoöl.) See Anabas, and Labyrinthici.
clime: A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.Turn we to sutvey, Where rougher climes a nobler race display.Goldsmith.
clinanthium: The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- alsocalled clinium.
clinch: To hold fast; to grasp something firmly; to seize or grasp oneanother.
clincher-built: See Clinker-built.
cling: To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially bytwining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to itssupport; -- usually followed by to or together.And what hath life for thee That thou shouldst cling to it thus Mrs.Hemans.
clingstone: Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in somekinds of peaches.-- n.
clingy: Apt to cling; adhesive. [R.]
clinic: One who receives baptism on a sick bed. [Obs.] Hook.
clinically: In a clinical manner.
clinique: A clinic.
clinium: See Clinanthium.
clink: To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as bystriking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.And let me the canakin clink. Shak.
clinkant: See Clnquant.
clinker-built: Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the loweredge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it likeclapboards on a house. See Lapstreak.
clinkstone: An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar instructure, and clinking under the hammer. See Phonolite.
clinodiagonal: That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal whichmakes an oblique angle witch the vertical axis. See Crystallization.-- a.
clinodome: See under Dome.
clinographic: Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which therays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane ofprojection.
clinoid: Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner sideof the sphenoid bone.
clinometer: An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr theslope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level. Dana.
clinometry: That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.
clinopinacoid: The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which isparallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal)axes.
clinorhombic: Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to arhombic base; monoclinic.
clinostat: An apparatus consisting of a slowly revolving disk, usuallyregulated by  clockwork, by means of wich the action of externalagents, as light and gravity, on growing plants may be regulated oreliminated.
clinquant: Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery. [Obs.]Shak.
clio: The Muse who presided over history.
clione: A genus of naked pteropods. One species (Clione papilonacea),abundant in the Arctic Ocean, constitutes a part of the food of theGreenland whale. It is sometimes incorrectly called Clio.
clip: To move swiftly; -- usually with indefinite it.Straight flies as chek, and clips it down the wind. Dryden.
clipper: A vessel with a sharp bow, built and rigged for fast sailing.-- Clip"per-built` (, a.
clique: A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests orfor the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in abad sense.
cliquish: Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques;exclusive in spirit.-- Cli"*quish*ness, n.
cliquism: The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.
clitellus: A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adultearthworm, consisting of several united segments modified forreproductive purposes.
clitoris: A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to thepenis in the male.
clivers: See Cleavers.
clivity: Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient. [R.]
cloaca: The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, andgenerative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and manyfishes.
cloacal: Of or pertaining to a cloaca.
cloak: To cover with, or as with, a cloak; hence, to hide or conceal.Now glooming sadly, so to cloak her matter. Spenser.
cloakedly: In a concealed manner.
cloakroom: A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks,overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.
cloche: An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aëroplanes,and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with auniversal joint at the base, which is bellshaped and has attached toit the cables for controlling the wing-warping devices, elevatorplanes, and the like.
clock: To ornament with figured work, as the side of a stocking.
clocklike: Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.Their services are clocklike, to be set Blackward and vorward attheir lord's command. B. Jonson.
clockwise: Like the motion of the hands of a clock; -- said of thatdirection of a rotation about an axis, or about a point in a plane,which is ordinarily reckoned negative.
clockwork: The machinery of a clock, or machinary resembling that of aclock; machinery which produced regularity of movement.
clod: To collect into clods, or into a thick mass; to coagulate; toclot; as, clodded gore. See Clot.Clodded in lumps of clay. G. Fletcher.
cloddish: Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish. Hawthorne.-- Clod"dish*ness, n.
cloddy: Consisting of clods; full of clods.
clodhopper: A rude, rustic fellow.
clodhopping: Boorish; rude. C. Bronté.
clodpate: A blockhead; a dolt.
clodpated: Stupid; dull; doltish.
clodpoll: A stupid fellow; a dolt. [Written also clodpole.] Shak.
cloff: Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundredweight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in ageneral sense, of small deductions from the original weight. [Writtenalso clough.] McCulloch.
clogginess: The state of being clogged.
clogging: Anything which clogs. Dr. H. More.
cloggy: Clogging, or having power to clog.
cloisonne: Inlaid between partitions
cloister: To confine in, or as in, a cloister; to seclude from the world;to immure.None among them are throught worthy to be styled religious personsbut those that cloister themselves up in a monastery. Sharp.
cloisteral: Cloistral. [Obs.] I. Walton.
cloisterer: One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.
cloistral: Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.[Written also cloisteral.]Best become a cloistral exercise. Daniel.
cloistress: A nun. [R.] Shak.
cloke: See Cloak. [Obs.]
clomp: See Clamp.
clong: imp. of Cling. [Obs.]
clonic: Having an irregular, convulsive motion. Dunglison. Clonicspasm. (Med.) See under Spasm.
clonus: A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching ofthe muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies.
cloom: To close with glutinous matter. [Obs.] Mortimer.
cloop: The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle."The cloop of a cork wrenched from a bottle." Thackeray.
clootie: A little hoof.
close: The interest which one may have in a piece of ground, eventhough it is not inclosed. Bouvier.
close-banded: Closely united.
close-barred: Firmly barred or closed.
close-bodied: Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment. Ayliffe.
close-fights: Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of avessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy'sboarders; -- called also close quarters. [Obs.]
close-stool: A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick andinfirm. It is usually in the form of a box, with a seat and tightcover.
close-tongued: Closemouthed; silent. "Close-tongued treason." Shak.
closefisted: Covetous; niggardly. Bp. Berkeley. "Closefisted contractors."Hawthorne.
closehanded: Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted.-- Close"hand`ed*ness, n.
closehauled: Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the directionfrom which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.
closemouthed: Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.
closen: To make close. [R.]
closeness: The state of being close.Half stifled by the closeness of the room. Swift.We rise not against the piercing judgment of Augustus, nor theextreme caution or closeness of Tiberius. Bacon.An affectation of closeness and covetousness. Addison.
closer: The last stone in a horizontal course, if of a less size thanthe others, or a piece of brick finishing a course. Gwilt.
closereefed: Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.
closh: A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis. Crabb.
closure: A method of putting an end to debate and securing an immediatevote upon a measure before a legislative body. It is similar ineffect to the previous question. It was first introduced into theBritish House of Commons in 1882. The French word clôture wasoriginally applied to this proceeding.
clot: A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulatedmass, as of blood; a coagulum. "Clots of pory gore." Addison.Doth bake the egg into clots as if it began to poach. Bacon.
clote: The common burdock; the clotbur. [Obs.] Wyclif.
clothe: To wear clothes. [Poetic]Care no more to clothe eat. Shak.
clotheshorse: A frame to hang clothes on.
clothesline: A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.
clothespin: A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used forfastening clothes on a line.
clothespress: A receptacle for clothes.
clothing: See Card clothing, under 3d Card.
clothred: Clottered. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clotpoll: See Clodpoll. [Obs.] Shak.
clotted: Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of aclot; sticky; slimy; foul. "The clotted glebe." J. Philips.When lust . . . Lets in defilement to the inward parts, The soulgrows clotted by contagion. Milton.
clotter: To concrete into lumps; to clot. [Obs.] "Clottered blood."Chapman.
clotty: Full of clots, or clods. "Clotty matter." Harvey.
cloture: See Closure, 5.
clotweed: Cocklebur.
cloud: To grow cloudy; to become obscure with clouds; -- often usedwith up.Worthies, away! The scene begins to cloud. Shak.
cloud-built: Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.Cowper.So vanished my cloud-built palace. Goldsmith.
cloud-burst: A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had beenprecipitated at once.
cloud-capped: Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to theclouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.
cloud-compeller: Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus. [Poetic.] Pope.
cloudage: Mass of clouds; cloudiness. [R.]A scudding cloudage of shapes. Coleridge.
cloudberry: A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamæmerous) growing in thenorthern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.
cloudily: In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely. Dryden.
cloudiness: The state of being cloudy.
cloudland: Dreamland.
cloudless: Without a cloud; clear; bright.A cloudless winter sky. Bankroft.-- Cloud"less*ly, adv.-- Cloud"less*ness, n.
cloudlet: A little cloud. R. Browning.Eve's first star through fleecy cloudlet peeping. Coleridge.
clough: An allowance in weighing. See Cloff.
clouterly: Clumsy; awkward. [Obs.]Rough-hewn, cloutery verses. E. Phillips.
clove: imp. of Cleave. Cleft. Spenser. Clove hitch (Naut.) See underHitch.-- Clove hook (Naut.), an iron two-part hook, with jaws overlapping,used in bending chain sheets to the clews of sails; -- called alsoclip hook. Knight.
cloven: from Cleave, v. t. To show the cloven foot or hoof, to reveal adevilish character, or betray an evil purpose, notwithstandingdisguises, -- Satan being represented dramatically and symbolicallyas having cloven hoofs.
clover: A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as thecommon red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare'sfoot, T. arvense. Clover weevil (Zoöl.) a small weevil (Apionapricans), that destroys the seeds of clover.-- Clover worm (Zoöl.), the larva of a small moth (Asopia costalis),often very destructive to clover hay.-- In clover, in very pleasant circumstances; fortunate. [Colloq.] -- Sweet clover. See Meliot.
clovered: Covered with growing clover.Flocks thick nibbling through the clovered vale. Thomson.
clowe-gilofre: Spice clove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clown: To act as a clown; -- with it [Obs.]Beclowns it properly indeed. B. Jonson.
clownage: Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
clownery: Clownishness. L'Estrange.
clownish: Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown;ungainly; awkward. "Clownish hands." Spenser. "Clownish mimic."Prior.-- Clown"ish*ly, adv.
clownishness: The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.That plainness which the alamode people call clownishness. Locke.
cloyless: That does not cloy. Shak.
cloyment: Satiety. [Obs.] Shak.
club: Any card of the suit of cards having a figure like the trefoilor clover leaf. (pl.) The suit of cards having such figure.
club-rush: A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species ofthe genus Scirpus. See Bulrush.
club-shaped: Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennæ of certaininsects.
clubbable: Suitable for membership in a club; sociable. [Humorous.] G. W.Curtis.
clubbed: Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club. Skelton.
clubbist: A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs. [R.] Burke.
clubfisted: Having a large fist. Howell.
clubfoot: A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usuallycongenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.
clubfooted: Having a clubfoot.
clubhand: A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such ahand.
clubhaul: To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon asthe wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to thewind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the othertack. Clubhauling is attempted only in an exigency.
clubhouse: A house occupied by a club.
clubroom: The apartment in which a club meets. Addison.
cluck: To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen. Ray.
clucking: The noise or call of a brooding hen.
clue: A ball of thread; a thread or other means of guidance. Same asClew.You have wound a goodly clue. Shak.This clue once found unravels all the rest. Pope.Serve as clues to guide us into further knowledge. Locke.
clum: Silence; hush. [Obs.] Chaucer.
clumber: A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which,unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.
clump: To arrange in a clump or clumps; to cluster; to group.Blackmore.
clumper: To form into clumps or masses. [Obs.]Vapors . . . clumpered in balls of clouds. Dr. H. More.
clumps: A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enablingthe questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected bytwo persons who answer the questions; -- so called because theplayers take sides in two "clumps" or groups, the "clump" whichguesses the word winning the game.
clumpy: Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless. Leigh Hunt.
clumsily: In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.
clumsiness: The quality of being clusy.The drudging part of life is chiefly owing to clumsiness andignorance. Collier.
clunch: .
clung: imp. & p. p. of Cling.
cluniac: A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, foundedin 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France.-- Also used as a.
cluniacensian: Cluniac.
clupeoid: Of or pertaining to the Herring family.
cluster: To grow in clusters or assemble in groups; to gather or unitein a cluster or clusters.His sunny hair Cluster'd about his temples, like a god's. Tennyson.The princes of the country clustering together. Foxe.
clusteringly: In clusters.
clustery: Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters. Johnson.
clutch: The hands, claws, or talons, in the act of grasping firmly; --often figuratively, for power, rapacity, or cruelty; as, to fall intothe clutches of an adversary.I must have . . . little care of myself, if I ever more come near theclutches of such a giant. Bp. Stillingfleet.
clutter: To crowd together in disorder; to fill or cover with things indisorder; to throw into disorder; to disarrange; as, to clutter aroom.
clydesdale: One of a breed of heavy draft horses originally fromClydesdale, Scotland. They are about sixteen hands high and usuallybrown or bay.
clydesdale terrier: One of a breed of small silky-haired terriers related to, butsmaller than, the Skye terrier, having smaller and perfectly erectears.
clypeastroid: Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a groupof flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.
clypeate: Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.
clypeiform: Shield-shaped; clypeate.
clypeus: The frontal plate of the head of an insect.
clysmian: Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm;as, clysmian changes. Smart.
clysmic: Washing; cleansing.
clyster: A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of asyringe; an injection; an enema. Clyster pipe, a tube or pipe usedfor injections.
clytie knot: In hair dressing, a loose, low coil at the back of the head,like the knot on the head of the bust of Clytie by G. F. Watts.
cnemial: Pertaining to the shin bone. Cnemial crest, a crestlikeprominence on the proximal end of the tibia of birds and somereptiles.
cnida: One of the peculiar stinging, cells found in Coelenterata; anematocyst; a lasso cell.
cnidaria: A comprehensive group equivalent to the true Coelenterata,i.e., exclusive of the sponges. They are so named from presence ofstinging cells (cnidae) in the tissues. See Coelenterata.
cnidoblast: One of the cells which, in the Coelenterata, develop intocnidæ.
cnidocil: The fine filiform process of a cnidoblast.
co-: A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, inconjunction, joint. It is used before vowels and some consonants. SeeCom-.
co-ally: A joint ally. Kent.
co-assessor: A joint assessor.
co-legatee: A joint legatee.
co-lessee: A partner in a lease taen.
co-lessor: A partner in giving a lease.
co-mate: A companion. Shak.
co-meddle: To mix; to mingle, to temper. [Obs.] Shak.
co-regent: A joint regent or ruler.
co-relation: Corresponding relation.
co-religionist: One of the same religion with another.
co-respondent: One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceedingjointly with another.
co-sufferer: One who suffers with another. Wycherley.
co-une: To combine or unite. [Obs.] "Co-uned together." Feltham.
co-unite: To unite. [Obs.]
coacervate: Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped. [R.] Bacon.
coacervation: A heaping together. [R.] Bacon.
coach: A cabin on the after part of the quarterdeck, usually occupiedby the captain. [Written also couch.] [Obs.]The commanders came on board and the council sat in the coach. Pepys.
coachbox: The seat of a coachman.
coachdog: One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; theDalmatian dog.
coachee: A coachman [Slang]
coacher: one of the side at the bat posted near first or third base todirect a base runner.
coachfellow: One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.),a comrade. Shak.
coachman: A tropical fish of the Atlantic ocean (Dutes auriga); -- calledalso charioteer. The name refers to a long, lashlike spine of thedorsal fin.
coachmanship: Skill in driving a coach.
coachwhip snake: A large, slender, harmless snake of the southern United States(Masticophis flagelliformis).
coact: To force; to compel; to drive. [Obs.]The faith and service of Christ ought to be voluntary and notcoacted. Foxe.
coaction: Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling. Sojth.
coactively: In a coactive manner.
coactivity: Unity of action.
coadaptation: Mutual adaption. R. Owen.
coadapted: Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth. R. Owen.
coadjument: Mutual help; coöperation. [R.] Johnson.
coadjust: To adjust by mutual adaptations. R. Owen.
coadjustment: Mutual adjustment.
coadjutant: Mutually assisting or operating; helping. J. Philips.
coadjuting: Mutually assisting. [Obs.] Drayton.
coadjutive: Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant. Feltham.
coadjutor: The assistant of a bishop or of a priest holding a benefice.
coadjutorship: The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance. Pope.
coadjuvancy: Joint help; coöperation. Sir T. Browne.
coadjuvant: Coöperating.
coadunate: United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.
coadunation: Union, as in one body or mass; unity. Jer. Taylor.The coadunation of all the civilized provinces. Coleridge.
coadunition: Coadunation. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
coadventure: An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.
coadventurer: A fellow adventurer.
coafforest: To convert into, or add to, a forest. Howell.
coag: See Coak, a kind of tenon.
coagency: Agency in common; joint agency or agent. Coleridge.
coagent: An associate in an act; a coworker. Drayton.
coagment: To join together. [Obs.] Glanvill.
coagmentation: The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together;union. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
coagulability: The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.Ure.
coagulable: Capable of being coagulated. Boyle.
coagulant: That which produces coagulation.
coagulate: Coagulated. [Obs.] Shak.
coagulated: Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass;curdled. Coagulated proteid (Physiol. Chem.), one of a class ofbodies formed in the coagulation of a albuminous substance by heat,acids, or other agents.
coagulative: Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.Boyle.
coagulator: That which causes coagulation. Hixley.
coagulatory: Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatoryeffects. Boyle.
coagulum: The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation ofalbuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of bloot.
coaita: The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genusAteles, esp. A. paniscus. The black-faced coaita is Ateles ater. SeeIllustration in Appendix.
coak: See Coke, n.
coal: A black, or brownish black, solid, combustible substance, dugfrom beds or veins in the earth to be used for fuel, and consisting,like charcoal, mainly of carbon, but more compact, and oftenaffording, when heated, a large amount of volatile matter.
coal tar: A thick, black, tarry liquid, obtained by the distillation ofbituminous coal in the manufacture of illuminating gas; used formaking printer's ink, black varnish, etc. It is a complex mixturefrom which many substances have been obtained, especiallyhydrocarbons of the benzene or aromatic series.
coal works: A place where coal is dug, including the machinery for raisingthe coal.
coal-black: As black as coal; jet black; very black. Dryden.
coal-meter: A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.Simmonds.
coal-whipper: One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship. [Eng.] Dickens.
coalery: See Colliery.
coalescence: The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the actof uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of beingunited; union; concretion.
coalescent: Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion ofsimilar parts; uniting.
coalgoose: The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.
coalite: To unite or coalesce. [Obs.]Let them continue to coalite. Bolingbroke.
coalitioner: A coalitionist.
coalitionist: One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocatescoalition.
coalmouse: A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.
coalsack: Any one of the spaces in the Milky Way which are very black,owing to the nearly complete absence of stars; esp., the large spacenear the Southern Cross sometimes called the Black Magellanic Cloud.
coaly: Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of thenature of coal.
coamings: Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, orother opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp.the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from thetransverse head ledges. [Written also combings.]
coannex: To annex with something else.
coaptation: The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of abroken bone or dislocated joint.
coarctate: Pressed together; closely connected; -- applied to insectshaving the abdomen separated from the thorax only by a constriction.Coarctate pupa (Zoöl.), a pupa closely covered by the old larvalskin, as in most Diptera.
coarctation: A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.
coarse-grained: Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting inrefinement.
coarsely: In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly;meanly.
coarsen: To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character. [R.]Graham.
coarseness: The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance;vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, orlanguage. "The coarseness of the sackcloth." Dr. H. More.Pardon the coarseness of the illustration. L'Estrange.A coarseness and vulgarity in all the proceedings. Burke.
coarticulation: The unoin or articulation of bones to form a joint.
coast: To slide down hill; to slide on a sled, upon snow or ice.[Local, U. S.]
coast and geodetic survey: A bureau of the United States government charged with thetopographic and hydrographic survey of the coast and the execution ofbelts of primary triangulation and lines of precise leveling in theinterior. It now belongs to the Department of Commerce and Labor.
coastal: Of or pertaining to a cast.
coasting: Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along acoast. Coasting trade, trade carried on by water between neighboringports of the same country, as distinguished fron foreign trade ortrade involving long voyages.-- Coasting vessel, a vessel employed in coasting; a coaster.
coatee: A coat with short flaps.
coati: A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to theraccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.
coatless: Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.
coax: To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, orfondling; to wheedle; to soothe.
coaxation: The act of croaking. [R] Dr. H. More.
coaxer: One who coaxes.
coaxingly: In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.
cob: A spider; perhaps from its shape; it being round like a head.
cobaea: A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America.C. scandens is a consrvatory climber with large bell-shaped flowers.
cobalt: A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, noteasily fusible, and somewhat magnetic. Atomic weight 59.1. Symbol Co.
cobaltic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- saidespecially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as,cobaltic oxide. Luteo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive seriesof complex yellow compounds of ammonia and cobaltic salts.-- Roseo-cobaltic compounds (Chem.), an extensive series of complexred compounds of cobalt and ammonia. Modifications of these are thepurpureo-cobaltic compounds.
cobaltiferous: Containing cobalt.
cobaltous: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- saidesp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.Cobaltous chloride, a crystalline compound, CoCl2, of a pale rosecolor when hydrous, blue when dehydrated. Its solution is used for asympathetic ink, the writing being nearly colorless when dried in theair, owing to absorbed moisture, and becoming bright blue whenwarmed.
cobbing: Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n., 2. [Obs.] Withals (1608).
cobble: A fishing boat. See Coble.
cobblestone: A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; asmall boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.
cobelligerent: Carryng on war in conjunction with another power.
cobia: An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater;-- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.
cobiron: An andiron with a knob at the top. Bacon.
cobishop: A joint or coadjutant bishop. Ayliffe.
coble: A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudderextending from two to four feet below the keel. It was originallyused on the stormy coast of Yorkshire, England.
cobnut: A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.
coboose: See Caboose.
cobourg: A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.
cobra: See Copra.
cobra de capello: The hooded snake (Naia tripudians), a highly venomous serpentinhabiting India.
cobstone: Cobblestone. [Prov. Eng.]
cobswan: A large swan. B. Jonson.
cobwall: A wall made of clay mixed with straw.
cobweb: The European spotted flycatcher. Cobweb lawn, a fine linen,mentioned in 1640 as being in pieces of fifteen yards. Beck. Draper'sDict.Such a proud piece of cobweb lawn. Beau. & Fl.Cobweb micrometer, a micrometer in which threads of cobwed aresubstituted for wires.
cobwebbed: Abounding in cobwebs. "The cobwebbed cottage." Young.
cobwebby: Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.
cobwork: Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the endsdovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marinework, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, acobwork dock or breakwater.
coca: The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca).In med., called Erythroxylon.
cocaine: A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves ofcoca. It is a bitter, white, crystalline substance, and is remarkablefor producing local insensibility to pain.
cocainism: A morbid condition produced by the habitual and excessive useof cocaine. -- Co*ca"in*ist, n.
cocainize: To treat or anæsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion(#), n.
cocciferous: Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferroustrees or plants.
coccinella: A genus of small beetles of many species. They and their larv¦eed on aphids or plant lice, and hence are of great benefit to man.Also called ladybirds and ladybugs.
coccobacterium: One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism,generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.
coccolite: A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.
coccolith: One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable,often abundant in deep-sea mud.
coccosphere: A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up intococcoliths.
coccosteus: An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broadplates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.
cocculus indicus: The fruit or berry of the Anamirta Cocculus, a climbing plantof the East Indies. It is a poisonous narcotic and stimulant.
coccus: One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.
coccygeal: Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebræ.Coccygeal glands (Zoöl.) , glands situated at the base of the tail ofbirds. They secrete the oil with which the plumage is dressed.
coccygeous: Coccygeal. [R.]
coccyx: The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man andtailless monkeys. It is composed of several vertebræ more or lessconsolidated.
cochin fowl: A large variety of the domestic fowl, originally from CochinChina (Anam).
cochineal: A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of theCoccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., andfound on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.
cochineal fig: A plant of Central and Southern Anerica, of the Cactus familly,extensively cultivated for the sake of the cochineal insect, whichlives on it.
cochlea: An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which iselongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals. See Ear.
cochlear: Of or pertaining to the cochlea.
cochleare: A spoonful. Dungleson.
cochleariform: Spoon-shaped.
cochleary: Same as Cochleate.
cock: To strut; to swagger; to look big, pert, or menacing. Addison.
cock-a-hoop: Boastful; defiant; exulting. Also used adverbially.
cock-brained: Giddy; rash. Milton.
cock-paddle: See Lumpfish. [Scot.]
cock-padle: See Lumpfish. [Scot.]
cockade: A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, andgenerally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military ornaval service, or party allegiance, and in England as a part of thelivery to indicate that the wearer is the servant of a military ornaval officer.Seduced by military liveries and cockades. Burke.
cockaded: Wearing a cockade. Young.
cockaleekie: A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned,and boiled with leeks and prunes.
cockamaroo: The Russian variety of bagatelle.
cockateel: An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novæ-Hollandiæ); -- so calledfrom its note.
cockatoo: A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinæ, havinga short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with acrest, which can be raised or depressed at will. There are severalgenera and many species; as the broad-crested (Plictolophus, orCacatua, cristatus), the sulphur-crested (P. galeritus), etc. Thepalm or great black cockatoo of Australia is Microglossus aterrimus.Cock"a*trice, n. Etym
cockbill: To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, tocockbill the yards as a sign of mourning. To cockbill the anchor, tosuspend it from the cathead preparatory to letting it go. SeeAcockbill.
cockboat: A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.
cockchafer: A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and alliedgenera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.
cocker: Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; topamper.Cocker thy child and he shall make thee afraid. Ecclesiasticus xxx.9.Poor folks cannot afford to cocker themselves up. J. Ingelow.
cocker spaniel: One of a breed of small or medium-sized spaniels kept forhunting or retrieving game or for household pets. They usually weighfrom eighteen to twenty-eight pounds. They have the head of fairlength, with square muzzle, the ears long and set low, the legs shortor of medium length, and the coat fine and silky, wavy but not curly.Various colors are bred, as black, liver, red, black and white, blackand tan, etc.
cockerel: A young cock.
cocket: Pert; saucy. [Obs.] Halliwell.
cockeye: A squinting eye. Forby.
cockfight: A match or contest of gamecocks.
cockfighting: The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.
cockhead: The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forminga pivot on which the stone is balanced.
cockieleekie: Same as Cockaleekie.
cocking: Cockfighting. Ben Jonson.
cockle: A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium,especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied tosimilar shells of other genera.
cocklebur: A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; oneof several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.
cockled: Inclosed in a shell.The tender horns of cockled snails. Shak.
cockler: One who takes and sells cockles.
cockloft: An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.Dryden. Swift.
cockmaster: One who breeds gamecocks. L'Estrange.
cockmatch: A cockfight.
cockney: Of or relating to, or like, cockneys.
cockneydom: The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.Thackeray.
cockneyfy: To form with the manners or character of a cockney. [Colloq.]
cockneyish: Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.
cockneyism: The charasteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.
cockroach: An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.
cockscomb: A plant (Celosia cristata), of many varieties, cultivated forits broad, fantastic spikes of brilliant flowers; -- sometimes calledgarden cockscomb. Also the Pedicularis, or lousewort, the RhinanthusCrista-galli, and the Onobrychis Crista-galli.
cockshead: (Bot.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having smallspiny-crested pods.
cockshut: A kind of net to catch woodcock. [Obs.] Nares. Cockshut time orlight, evening twilight; nightfall; -- so called in allusion to thetome at which the cockshut used to be spread. [Obs.] Shak. B. Jonson.
cockspur: A variety of Cratægus, or hawthorn (C. Crus-galli), havinglong, straight thorns; -- called also Cockspur thorn.
cockswain: The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of aboat and its crew.
cocktail: A horse, not of pure breed, but having only one eighth or onesixteenth impure blood in his veins. Darwin.
cockup: A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Latescalcarifer); -- also called begti.
cockweed: Peppergrass. Johnson.
cocky: Pert. [Slang]
cocoa: A preparation made from the seeds of the chocolate tree, andused in making, a beverage; also the beverage made from cocoa orcocoa shells. Cocoa shells, the husks which separate from the cacaoseeds in preparing them for use.
cocoanut: The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm. It yields anagreeable milky liquid and a white meat or albumen much used as foodand in making oil.
cocoonery: A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and formingcocoons.
coctible: Capable of being cooked. Blount.
coctile: Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.
cocus wood: A West Indian wood, used for making flutes and other musicalinstruments.
cod: An important edible fish (Gadus morrhua), Taken in immensenumbers on the northern coasts of Europe and America. It isespecially abundant and large on the Grand Bank of Newfoundland. Itis salted and dried in large quantities.
cod liver: The liver of the common cod and allied species. Cod-liver oil,an oil obtained fron the liver of the codfish, and used extensivelyin medicine as a means of supplying the body with fat in cases ofmalnutrition.
coda: A few measures added beyond the natural termination of acomposition.
codder: A gatherer of cods or peas. [Obs. or Prov.] Johnson.
codding: Lustful. [Obs.] Shak.
coddymoddy: A gull in the plumage of its first year.
codefendant: A joint defendant. Blackstone.
codeine: One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance,C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, butmuch feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.
codetta: A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming partof either; a short coda.
codfish: A kind of fish. Same as Cod.
codical: Ralating to a codex, or a code.
codicil: A clause added to a will.
codicillary: Of the nature of a codicil.
codification: The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.
codifier: One who codifies.
codify: To reduce to a code, as laws.
codilla: The coarse tow of flax and hemp. McElrath.
codille: A term at omber, signifying that the game is won. Pope.
codist: A codifier; a maker of codes. [R.]
codle: See Coddle.
codling: A young cod; also, a hake.
codpiece: A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly madevery conspicuous. Shak. Fosbroke.
coecilian: See Cæcilian.
coeducation: An educating together, as of persons of different sexes orraces. Co*ed`u*ca"tion*al (, a.
coefficacy: Joint efficacy.
coefficiency: Joint efficiency; coöperation. Glanvill.
coefficient: Coöperating; acting together to produce an effect.Co`ef*fi"cient*ly, adv.
coehorn: A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles,and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.
coelacanth: Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.
coelectron: See Electron.
coelenterate: Belonging to the Coelentra.-- n.
coelia: A cavity.
coelodont: Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards.-- n.
coelospermous: Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpelsincurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.
coelum: See Body cavity, under Body.
coemption: The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity. [R.]Bacon.
coendoo: The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, or Sphingurus,prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.
coenesthesis: Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished fromthe special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separateorgans, as the eye and ear. It is supposed to depend on theganglionic system.
coenobite: See Cenobite.
coenoecium: The common tissue which unites the various zooids of abryozoan.
coenogamy: The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexualintercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes orcommunistic societies. [Written also cenogamy.]
coenosarc: The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compoundhydroid. See Hydroidea.
coenurus: The larval stage of a tapeworm (Tænia coenurus) which formsbladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal diseaseknown as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.
coequal: Being on an equality in rank or power.-- n.
coequality: The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.
coequally: With coequality.
coercible: Capable of being coerced.-- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n.
coercion: The application to another of either physical or moral force.When the force is physical, and cannot be resisted, then the actproduced by it is a nullity, so far as concerns the party coerced.When the force is moral, then the act, though voidable, is imputableto the party doing it, unless he be so paralyzed by terror as to actconvulsively. At the same time coercion is not negatived by the factof submission under force. "Coactus volui" (I consented undercompulsion) is the condition of mind which, when there is volitionforced by coercion, annuls the result of such coercion. Wharton.
coercitive: Coercive. "Coercitive power in laws." Jer. Taylor.
coercive: Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain.-- Co*er"cive*ly, adv.-- Co*er"cive*ness, n.Coercive power can only influence us to outward practice. Bp.Warburton.Coercive or Coercitive force (Magnetism), the power or force which iniron or steel produces a slowness or difficulty in impartingmagnetism to it, and also interposes an obstacle to the return of abar to its natural state when active magnetism has ceased. It plainlydepends on the molecular constitution of the metal. Nichol.The power of resisting magnetization or demagnization is sometimescalled coercive force. S. Thompson.
coerulignone: A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in thepurification of crude wood vinegar. It is regarded as a complexquinone derivative of diphenyl; -- called also cedriret.
coessential: Partaking of the same essence.-- Co`es*sen"tial*ly, adv.We bless and magnify that coessential Spirit, eternally proceedingfrom both [The Father and the Son]. Hooker.
coessentiality: Participation of the same essence. Johnson.
coestablishment: Joint establishment. Bp. Watson.
coestate: Joint estate. Smolett.
coetanean: A personcoetaneous with another; a contemporary. [R.]A . . . coetanean of the late earl of SouthamptoAubrey.
coetaneous: Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time;contemporaneous.-- Co`e*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.And all [members of the body] are coetaneous. Bentley.
coeternal: Equally eternal.-- Co`e*ter"nal*ly, adv.Hail, holy Light, offspring of Heaven first born! Or of the Eternalcoeternal beam. Milton.
coeternity: Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being;equal eternity.
coeval: Of the same age; existing during the same period of time,especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.Silence! coeval with eternity! Pope.Oaks coeval spread a mournful shade. Cowper.
coevous: Coeaval [Obs.] South.
coexecutor: A joint executor.
coexecutrix: A joint executrix.
coexist: To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.Of substances no one has any clear idea, farther than of certainsimple ideas coexisting together. Locke.So much purity and integrity . . . coexisting with so much decay andso many infirmities. Warburton.
coexistence: Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporaryexistence.Without the help, or so much as the coexistence, of any condition.Jer. Taylor.
coexistent: Existing at the same time with another.-- n.
coexisting: Coexistent. Locke.
coextend: To extend through the same space or time with another; toextend to the same degree.According to which the least body may be coextended with thegreatest. Boyle.Has your English language one single word that is coextended throughall these significations Bentley.
coextension: The act of extending equally, or the state of being equallyextended.
coextensive: Equally extensive; having as, consciousness and knowledge arecoextensive. Sir W. Hamilton.-- Co`ex*ten"sive*ly, adv.-- Co`ex*ten"sive*ness, n.
coffeehouse: A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffeeand other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.The coffeehouse must not be dismissed with a cursory mention. Itmight indeed, at that time, have been not improperly called a mostimportant political institution . . . The coffeehouses were the chieforgans through which the public opinion of the metropolis venteditself . . . Every man of the upper or middle class went daily to hiscoffeehouse to learn the news and discuss it. Every coffeehouse hadone or more orators, to whose eloquence the crowd listened withadmiration, and who soon became what the journalists of our own timehave been called -- a fourth estate of the realm. Macaulay.
coffeeman: One who keeps a coffeehouse. Addison.
coffeepot: A covered pot im which coffee is prepared,
coffeeroom: A public room where coffee and other refreshments may beobtained.
coffer: A panel deeply recessed in the ceiling of a vault, dome, orportico; a caisson.
cofferdam: A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, fromwhich the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) andpermit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.
cofferer: One who keeps treasures in a coffer. [R.]
cofferwork: Rubblework faced with stone. Knight.
coffin: The hollow crust or hoof of a horse's foot, below the coronet,in which is the coffin bone. Coffin bone, the foot bone of the horseand allied animals, inclosed within the hoof, and corresponding tothe third phalanx of the middle finger, or toe, of most mammals.-- Coffin joint, the joint next above the coffin bone.
coffinless: Having no coffin.
coffle: A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.
cog: To deceive; to cheat; to play false; to lie; to wheedle; tocajole.For guineas in other men's breeches, Your gamesters will palm andwill cog. Swift.
cogency: The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction;conclusiveness; force.An antecedent argument of extreme cogency. J. H. Newman.
cogenial: Congenial. [Obs.]
cogently: In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively. Locke.
cogger: A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.
coggery: Trick; deception. Bp. Watson.
coggle: A small fishing boat. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
cogitability: The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.
cogitable: Capable of being brought before the mind as a throught or idea;conceivable; thinkable.Creation is cogitable by us only as a putting forth of divine power.Sir W. Hamilton.
cogitabund: Full of thought; thoughtful. [R.] Leigh Hunt.
cogitate: To engage in continuous thought; to think.He that calleth a thing into his mind, whether by impression orrecordation, cogitateth and considereth, and he that employeth thefaculty of his fancy also cogitateth. Bacon.
cogitation: The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation. "Fixedin cogitation deep." Milton.
cogman: A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth. [Obs.] Wright.
cognac: A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.
cognate: One who is related to another on the female side. Wharton.
cognateness: The state of being cognate.
cognati: Relatives by the mother's side. Wharton.
cognation: That tie of consanguinity which exists between personsdescended from the same mother; -- used in distinction from agnation.
cognatus: A person cinnected through cognation.
cognitive: Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitivepower. South.
cognizably: In a cognizable manner.
cognizant: Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).
cognize: To know or perceive; to recognize.The reasoning faculty can deal with no facts until they are cognizedby it. H. Spencer.
cognizee: One to whom a fine of land was ackowledged. Blackstone.
cognizor: One who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in afine; the defendant. Blackstone.
cognomen: A surname.
cognominal: Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.
cognomination: A cognomen or surname. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
cognoscence: Cognizance. [R.] Dr. H. More.
cognoscente: A conoisseur. Mason.
cognoscibility: The quality of being cognoscible. Cudworth.
cognoscitive: Having the power of knowing. [Obs.] "An innate cognoscitivepower." Cudworth.
cognovit: An instrument in writting whereby a defendant in an actionacknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just. Mozley & W.
cogon: A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the PhilippineIslands and adjacent countries, used for thatching.
coguardian: A joint guardian.
cogue: A small wooden vessel; a pail. [Scot.] Jamieson.
cogware: A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classesin the sixteenth century. Halliwell.
cogwheel: A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. ofGearing.
cohabitant: One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.No small number of the Danes became peaceable cohabitants with theSaxons in England. Sir W. Raleigh.
cohabitation: The living together of a man and woman in supposed sexualrelationship.That the duty of cohabitation is released by the cruelty of one ofthe parties is admitted. Lord Stowell.
cohabiter: A cohabitant. Hobbes.
coheir: A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitledto an inheritance.
coheiress: A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a jointheiress.
coheirship: The state of being a coheir.
coherald: A joint herald.
coherently: In a coherent manner.
coherer: Any device in which an imperfectly conducting contact betweenpieces of metal or other conductors loosely resting against eachother is materially improved in conductivity by the influence ofHertzian waves; -- so called by Sir O. J. Lodge in 1894 on theassumption that the impact of the electic waves caused the looselyconnected parts to cohere, or weld together, a condition easilydestroyed by tapping. A common form of coherer as used in wirelesstelegraphy consists of a tube containing filings (usually a pinch ofnickel and silver filings in equal parts) between terminal wires orplugs (called conductor plugs).
cohesibility: The state of being cohesible. Good.
cohesible: Capable of cohesion.
cohesion: That from of attraction by which the particles of a body areunited throughout the mass, whether like or unlike; -- distinguishedfrom adhesion, which unites bodies by their adjacent surfaces.Solids and fluids differ in the degree of cohesion, which, beingincreased, turns a fluid into a solid. Arbuthnot.
cohibit: To restrain. [Obs.] Bailey.
cohibition: Hindrance; restraint. [Obs.]
cohobate: To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon thematter remaining in the vessel. Arbuthnot.
cohobation: The process of cohobating. Grew.
cohorn: See Coehorn.
cohort: A body of about five or six hundred soldiers; the tenth part ofa legion.
cohosh: A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whoseroostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root. The nameis sometimes also given to the Cimicifuga racemosa, and to twospecies of Actæa, plants of the Crowfoot family.
coif: A cap. Specifically
coifed: Wearing a coif.
coiffeur: A hairdresser.
coiffure: A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair. Addison.
coign: A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chieflyused in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous foraction or observation.
coigne: A quoin.See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak.
coil: To wind itself cylindrically or spirally; to form a coil; towind; -- often with about or around.You can see his flery serpents . . . Coiting, playing in the water.Longfellow.
coilon: A testicle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
coin: To manufacture counterfeit money.They cannot touch me for coining. Shak.
coincidency: Coincidence. [R.]
coincident: Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous;concurrent; -- followed by with.Christianity teaches nothing but what is perfectly suitable to, andcoincident with, the ruling principles of a virtuous and well-inclined man. South.
coincidental: Coincident.
coincidently: With coincidence.
coincider: One who coincides with another in an opinion.
coindication: One of several signs or sumptoms indicating the same fact; as,a coindication of disease.
coinhabitant: One who dwells with another, or with others. "Coinhabitants ofthe same element." Dr. H. More.
coinhere: To inhere or exist together, as in one substance. Sir W.Hamilton.
coinheritance: Joint inheritance.
coinheritor: A coheir.
coinitial: Having a common beginning.
coinquinate: Topollute. [Obs.] Skelton.
coinquination: Defilement. [Obs.]
coinstantaneous: Happening at the same instant. C. Darwin.
coinsurance: Insurance jointly with another or others; specif., that systemof fire insurance in which the insurer is treated as insuring himselfto the extent of that part of the risk not covered by his policy, sothat any loss is apportioned between him and the insurance company onthe principle of average, as in marine insurance or between otherinsurers.
cointense: Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and12, and 8 and 16, are cointense. H. Spencer.
cointension: The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied torelations; as, 3
coit: A quoit. [Obs.] Carew.
coition: A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation. Grew.
cojoin: To join; to conjoin. [R.] Shak.
cojuror: One who swears to another's credibility. W. Wotton.
coke: Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, orother volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or bydistillation, as in gas works. It is lagerly used where [Written alsocoak.] Gas coke, the coke formed in gas retorts, as distinguishedfrom that made in ovens.
cokenay: A cockney. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cokernut: The cocoanut.
cokes: A simpleton; a gull; a dupe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
cokewold: Cuckold. [Obs.] Chaucer.
col: A short ridge connecting two higher elevations or mountains;the pass over such a ridge.
cola: L. pl. of Colon.
colaborer: One who labors with another; an associate in labor.
colander: A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes forstraining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer ofwickerwork, perfprated metal, or the like.
colation: The act or process of straining or filtering. [R.]
colatitude: The complement of the latitude, or the difference between anylatitude and ninety degrees.
colature: The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer. [R.]
colbertine: A kind of lace. [Obs.]Pinners edged with colbertine. Swift.Difference rose between Mechlin, the queen of lace, and colbertine.Young.
colchicine: A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from theColchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowishamorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called alsocolchicia.
colchicum: A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe,including the meadow saffron.
colcothar: Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used inpolishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.
cold: Having a bluish effect. Cf. Warm, 8. Cold abscess. See underAbscess.-- Cold blast See under Blast, n., 2. Cold blood. See under Blood,n., 8.-- Cold chill, an ague fit. Wright.-- Cold chisel, a chisel of peculiar strength and hardness, forcutting cold metal. Weale.-- Cold cream. See under Cream.-- Cold slaw. See Cole slaw.-- In cold blood, without excitement or passion; deliberately.He was slain in cold blood after thefight was over. Sir W. Scott.To give one the cold shoulder, to treat one with neglect.
cold wave: In the terminology of the United States Weather Bureau, anunusual fall in temperature, to or below the freezing point,exceeding 16º in twenty-four hours or 20º in thirty-six hours,independent of the diurnal range.
cold-hearted: Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent.-- Cold"-heart`ed*ness, n.
cold-short: Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.
cold-shut: Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of aforging or casting.-- n.
coldfinch: A British wagtail.
coldish: Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.
coldly: In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; withindifference; calmly.Withdraw unto some private place, And reason coldly of yourgrievances. Shak.
coldness: The state or quality of being cold.
cole: A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B.oleracea called rape and coleseed.
colegoose: See Coalgoose.
colemanite: A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless orwhite crystals, also massive, in Southern California.
colemouse: See Coletit.
coleopter: One of the Coleoptera.
coleoptera: An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra)hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair,which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others whennot in use. The mouth parts form two pairs of jaws (mandibles andmaxillæ) adapted for chewing. Most of the Coleoptera are known asbeetles and weevils.
coleopteran: One of the order of Coleoptera.
coleopterist: One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.
coleorhiza: A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.Gray.
coleperch: A kind of small black perch.
colera: Bile; choler. [Obs.] Chaucer.
coleridgian: Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry ormetaphysics.
coleseed: The common rape or cole.
coleslaw: A salad made of sliced cabbage.
colestaff: See Colstaff.
coleus: A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated forits bright-colored or variegated leaves.
colfox: A crafty fox. [Obs.] Chaucer.
colic: A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm,obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera. Hepaticcolic, the severe pain produced by the passage of a gallstone fromthe liver or gall bladder through the bile duct.-- Intestinal colic, or Ordinary colic, pain due to distention ofthe intestines by gas.-- Lead colic, Painter's colic, a violent form of intestinal colic,associated with obstinate constipation, produced by chronic leadpoisoning.-- Renal colic, the severe pain produced by the passage of acalculus from the kidney through the ureter.-- Wind colic. See Intestinal colic, above.
colical: Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic. Swift.
colicky: Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.
colicroot: A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leavesall radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike(Aletris farinosa and A. aurea). Called sometimes star grass,blackroot, blazing star, and unicorn root.
colin: The American quail or bobwhite. The name is also applied toother related species. See Bobwhite.
coliseum: The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in theworld. [Written also Colosseum.]
colitis: An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucousmembrane; colonitis.
coll: To embrace. [Obs.] "They coll and kiss him." Latimer.
collaborateur: See Collaborator.
collaboration: The act ofworking together; united labor.
collaborator: An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientificlabor.
collagen: The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendonsor sinews and of bone. On being boiled in water it becomes gelatin orglue.
collagenous: Containing or resembling collagen.
collapse: Extreme depression or sudden failing o
collapsion: Collapse. [R.] Johnson.
collar: The neck or line of junction between the root of a plant andits stem. Gray.
collar bone: The clavicle.
collards: Young cabbage, used as "greens"; esp. a kind cultivated forthat purpose; colewort. [Colloq. Souther U. S.]
collared: Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearingwhen a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.
collatable: Capable of being collated. Coleridge.
collate: To present and institute in a benefice, when the personpresenting is both the patron and the ordinary; -- followed by to.
collateral: Descending from the same stock or ancestor, but not in the sameline or branch or one from the other; -- opposed to lineal.
collateralness: The state of being collateral.
collation: The gathering and examination of sheets preparatory to binding.
collationer: One who examines the sheets of a book that has just beenprinted, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.[Eng.]
collatitious: Brought together; contributed; done by contributions. [Obs.]Bailey.
collative: Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which thebishop and the patron are the same person.
collator: One who collates to a benefice.
collaud: To join in praising. [Obs.] Howell.
colleague: A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical officeor employment. It is never used of partners in trade or manufactures.
colleagueship: Partnership in office. Milton.
collect: A short, comprehensive prayer, adapted to a particular day,occasion, or condition, and forming part of a liturgy.The noble poem on the massacres of Piedmont is strictly a collect inverse. Macaulay.
collectanea: Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes ofinstruction; miscellany; anthology.
collectedly: Composedly; coolly.
collectedness: A collected state of the mind; self-possession.
collectible: Capable of being collected.
collectional: Of or pertaining to collecting.The first twenty-five [years] must have been wasted for collectionalpurposes. H. A. Merewether.
collective: Expressing a collection or aggregate of individuals, by asingular form; as, a collective name or noun, like assembly, army,juri, etc.
collectively: In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate;unitedly.
collectiveness: A state of union; mass.
collectivism: The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by societycollectively or as a whole; communism. W. G. Summer.
collectivist: An advocate of collectivism.-- a.
collector: An officer appointed and commissioned to collect and receivecustoms, duties, taxes, or toll.A great part of this is now embezzled . . . by collectors, and otherofficers. Sir W. Temple.
collectorate: The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.
collectorship: The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.
colleen: A girl; a maiden. [Anglo-Irish]
collegatary: A joint legatee.
collegial: Collegiate. [R.]
collegian: A member of a college, particularly of a literary institutionso called; a student in a college.
collegiate: Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; acollegiate society. Johnson. Collegiate church. (a) A church which,although not a bishop's seat, resembles a cathedral in having acollege, or chapter of canons (and, in the Church of England, adean), as Westminster Abbey. (b) An association of churches,possessing common revenues and administered under the joint pastorateof several ministers; as, the Reformed (Dutch) Collegiate Church ofNew York.
collembola: The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and alliedforms.
collenchyma: A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the anglesand (usually) elongated.
collet: A small metal ring; a small collar fastened on an arbor; as,the collet on the balance arbor of a watch; a small socket on a stem,for holding a drill.
colleterial: Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects. R. Owen.
colleterium: An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite theejected ova.
colletic: Agglutinant.-- n.
colley: See Collie.
collide: To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision;to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.Across this space the attraction urges them. They collide, theyrecoil, they oscillate. Tyndall.No longer rocking and swaying, but clashing and colliding. Carlyle.
collidine: One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oilyliquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from boneoil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.
collie: The Scotch shepherd dog. There are two breeds, the rough-hairedand smooth-haired. It is remarkable for its intelligence, displayedespecially in caring for flocks. [Written also colly, colley.]
collied: Darkened. See Colly, v. t.
colliflower: See Cauliflower.
colligate: To bring together by colligation; to sum up in a singleproposition.He had discovered and colligated a multitude of the most wonderful .. . phenomena. Tundall.
colligation: That process by which a number of isolated facts are broughtunder one conception, or summed up in a general proposition, as whenKepler discovered that the various observed positions of the planetMars were points in an ellipse. "The colligation of facts." Whewell.Colligation is not always induction, but induction is alwayscolligation. J. S. Mill.
collimate: To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bringinto the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to renderparallel, as rays of light.
collimation: The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of thesights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into itsproper position relative to the other parts of the instrument. Errorof collimation, the deviation of the line collimation of anastronomical instrument from the position it ought to have withrespect to the axis of motion of the instrument.-- Line of collimation, the axial line of the telescope of anastronomical or geodetic instrument, or the line which passes throughthe optical center of the object glass and the intersection of thecross wires at its focus.
collimator: A telescope arranged and used to determine errors ofcollimation, both vertical and horizontal. Nichol.
collin: A very pure form of gelatin.
colline: A small hill or mount. [Obs.]And watered park, full of fine collines and ponds. Evelyn.
collineation: The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixedobject. [R.] Johnson.
colling: An embrace; dalliance. [Obs.] Halliwell.
collingly: With embraces. [Obs.] Gascoigne.
collingual: Having, or pertaining to, the same language.
colliquable: Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid. [Obs.] Harvey.
colliquament: The first rudiments of an embryo in generation. Dr. H. More.
colliquate: To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; tomelt. [Obs.]The ore of it is colliquated by the violence of the fire. Boyle.[Ice] will colliquate in water or warm oil. Sir T. Browne.
colliquation: A processive wasting or melting away of the solid parts of theanimal system with copious excretions of liquids by one or morepassages. [Obs.]
colliquative: Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, collequativesweats.
colliquefaction: A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into onemass by fusion.The incorporation of metals by simple colliquefaction. Bacon.
collish: A tool to polish the edge of a sole. Knight.
collisive: Colliding; clashing. [Obs.]
collitigant: Disputing or wrangling. [Obs.] -- n.
collocate: Set; placed. [Obs.] Bacon.
collocation: The act of placing; the state of being placed with somethingelse; disposition in place; arrangement.The choice and collocation of words. Sir W. Jones.
collocution: A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutualdiscourse. Bailey.
collocutor: One of the speakers in a dialogue. Derham.
collodion: A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ethercontaining a varying proportion of alcohol. It is strongly adhesive,and is used by surgeons as a containing for wounds; but its chiefapplication is as a vehicle for the sensitive film in photography.Collodion process (Photog.), a process in which a film of sensitizedcollodion is used in preparing the plate for taking a picture.-- Styptic collodion, collodion containing an astringent, as tannin.
collodionize: To prepare or treat with collodion. R. Hunt.
collodiotype: A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype orambrotype.
collodium: See Collodion.
collogue: To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse,especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief. [Archaic orColloq.]Pray go in; and, sister, salve the matter, Collogue with her again,and all shall be well. Greene.He had been colloguing with my wife. Thackeray.
colloid: Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylikeappearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.
colloidal: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.
colloidality: The state or quality of being colloidal.
colloped: Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.With that red, gaunt, and colloped neck astrain. R. Browning.
colloquial: Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common andfamiliar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal;as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style.-- Col*lo"qui*al*ly, adv.His [Johnson's] colloquial talents were, indeed, of the highestorder. Macaulay.
colloquialism: A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse orwriting.
colloquialize: To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one'sstyle of writing.
colloquist: A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue. Malone.
collotype: A photomechanical print made directly from a hardened film ofgelatin or other colloid; also, the process of making such prints.According to one method, the film is sensitized with potassiumdichromate and exposed to light under a reversed negative. After thedichromate has been washed out, the film is soaked in glycerin andwater. As this treatment causes swelling in those parts of the filmwhich have been acted on by light, a plate results from whichimpressions can be taken with prepared ink. The albertype, phototype,and heliotype are collotypes.
collow: Soot; smut. See 1st Colly. [Obs.]
colluctancy: A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance;opposition of nature. [Obs.]
colluctation: A struggling; a contention. [Obs.]Colluctation with old hags and hobgoblins. Dr. H. More.
collude: To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to playinto each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.If they let things take their course, they will be represented ascolluding with sedition. Burke.
colluder: One who conspires in a fraud.
collum: A neck or cervix. Dunglison.
collusion: An agreement between two or more persons to defraud a person ofhis rights, by the forms of law, or to obtain an object forbidden bylaw. Bouvier. Abbott.
collusory: Collusive.
collutory: A medicated wash for the mouth.
colly: The black grime or soot of coal. [Obs.] Burton.
collybist: A money changer. [Obs.]In the face of these guilty collybists. Bp. Hall.
collyrium: An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.
coloboma: A defect or malformation; esp., a fissure of the iris supposedto be a persistent embryonic cleft.
colocolo: A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of theocelot.
colocynth: The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber(Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to thewatermelon; coloquintida. It comes in white balls, is intenselybitter, and a powerful cathartic. Called also bitter apple, bittercucumber, bitter gourd.
colocynthin: The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow,crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.
cologne: A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromaticoils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau decologne.
cologne earth: An earth of a deep brown color, containing more vegetable thanmineral matter; an earthy variety of lignite, or brown coal.
colombier: A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.
colombin: See Calumbin.
colombo: See Calumba.
colon: That part of the large intestines which extends from the cæcumto the rectum.
colonel: The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next abovea lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.
colonelcy: The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.
colonelship: Colonelcy. Swift.
coloner: A colonist. [Obs.] Holland
colonial: Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic,wars.
colonical: Of or pertaining to husbandmen. [Obs.]
colonist: A member or inhabitant of a colony.
colonitis: See Colitis.
colonization: Tha act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; theformation of a colony or colonies.The wide continent of America invited colonization. Bancroft.
colonizationist: A friend to colonization, esp. (U. S. Hist) to the colonizationof Africa by emigrants from the colored population of the UnitedStates.
colonize: To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people withcolonists; to migrate to and settle in. Bacon.They that would thus colonize the stars with inhabitants. Howell.
colonizer: One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist. Bancroft.
colonnade: A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals withall the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.
colony: A number of animals or plants living or growing together,beyond their usual range.
colophany: See Colophony.
colophene: A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation ofcolophony. It is regarded as a polymeric form of terebenthene. Calledalso diterebene.
colophon: An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place anddate of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on thelast page of a book.The colophon, or final description, fell into disuse, and . . . thetitle page had become the principal direct means of identifying thebook. De Morgan.The book was uninjured from title page to colophon. Sir W. Scott.
colophonite: A coarsely granular variety of garnet.
colophony: Rosin.
coloquintida: See Colocynth. Shak.
color: An apparent right; as where the defendant in trespass gave tothe plaintiff an appearance of title, by stating his title specially,thus removing the cause from the jury to the court. Blackstone.
color sergeant: See under Sergeant.
color-blind: Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, underColor, n.
colorable: Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice."Colorable pretense for infidility." Bp. Stillingfleet.-- Col"or*a*ble*ness, n.-- Col"or*a*bly, adv.Colorable and subtle crimes, that seldom are taken within the walk ofhuman justice. Hooker.
colorado beetle: A yellowish beetle (Doryphora decemlineata), with tenlongitudinal, black, dorsal stripes. It has migrated eastwards fromits original habitat in Colorado, and is very destructive to thepotato plant; -- called also potato beetle and potato bug. See Potatobeetle.
colorado group: A subdivision of the cretaceous formation of western NorthAmerica, especially developed in Colorado and the upper Missouriregion.
coloradoite: Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found inColorado.
colorate: Colored. [Obs.] Ray.
coloration: The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored. Bacon.The females . . . resemble each other in their general type ofcoloration. Darwin.
colorature: Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, orrapid passages.
colored: Of some other color than white; specifically applied to negroesor persons having negro blood; as, a colored man; the colored people.
colorific: Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.
colorimeter: An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything,especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.
colorimetry: The quantitative determination of the depth of color of asubstance.
colorist: One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; oneto whom coloring is of prime importance.Titian, Paul Veronese, Van Dyck, and the rest of the good colorists.Dryden.
colorman: A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds.
colossal: Of a size larger than heroic. See Heroic.
colossean: Colossal. [R.]
colosseum: The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome. [Also written Coliseum.]
colotomy: An operation for opening the colon
colour: See Color.
colp: See Collop.
colportage: The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., bycolporteurs.
colporter: Same as Colporteur.
colporteur: A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling anddistributing religious tracts and books.
colstaff: A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons ontheir shoulders.
colt: To frisk or frolic like a colt; to act licentiously orwantonly. [Obs.]They shook off their bridles and began to colt. Spenser.
colt pistol: A self-loading or semi-automatic pistol with removable magazinein the handle holding seven cartridges. The recoil extracts andejects the empty cartridge case, and reloads ready for another shot.Called also Browning, and Colt-Browning, pistol.
colt revolver: A revolver made according to a system using a patentedrevolving cylinder, holding six cartridges, patented by Samuel Colt,an American inventor, in 1835. With various modifications, it has formany years been the standard for the United States army.
colter: A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut thesward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard. [Written alsocoulter.]
coltish: Like a colt; wanton; frisky.He was all coltish, full of ragery. Chaucer.-- Colt"ish*ly, adv.-- Colt"ish*ness, n.
coltsfoot: A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves androotstock are sometimes employed in medicine. Butterbur coltsfoot(Bot.), a European plant (Petasites vulgaris).
coluber: A genus of harmless serpents.
colubrine: like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.
colugo: A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), havingalong the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelikemembrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like theflying squirrel; -- called also flying lemur.
columba: See Calumba.
columbae: An order of birds, including the pigeons.
columbary: A dovecote; a pigeon house. Sir T. Browne.
columbate: A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.
columbatz fly: See Buffalo fly, under Buffalo.
columbella: A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas. Somespecies, as Columbella mercatoria, were formerly used as shell money.
columbia: America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given inhonor of Columbus, the discoverer. Dr. T. Dwight.
columbiad: A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed forthrowing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high anglesof elevation.
columbian: Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.
columbic: Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.Columbic acid (Chem.), a weak acid derived from columbic or niobicoxide, Nb2O5; -- called also niobic acid.
columbier: See Colombier.
columbiferous: Producing or containing columbium.
columbin: A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.
columbine: Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored. "Columbineinnocency." Bacon.
columbite: A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and highspecific specific gravity. It is a niobate (or columbate) of iron andmanganese, containing tantalate of iron; -- first found in NewEngland.
columbium: A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a varietyof the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably atHaddam. Atomic weight 94.2. Symbol Cb or Nb. Now more commonly calledniobium.
columbo: See Calumba.
columbus day: The 12th day of October, on which day in 1492 ChristopherColumbus discovered America, landing on one of the Bahama Islands(probably the one now commonly called Watling Island), and naming it"San Salvador"; -- called also Discovery Day. This day is made alegal holiday in many States of The United States.
columella: A term applied to various columnlike parts; as, the columnella,or epipterygoid bone, in the skull of many lizards; the columella ofthe ear, the bony or cartilaginous rod connecting the tympanicmembrane with the internal ear.
columelliform: Shaped like a little column, or columella.
column: A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for aroof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usuallycomposed of base, shaft, and capital. See Order.
columnar: Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; likethe shaft of a column. Columnar epithelium (Anat.), epithelium inwhich the cells are priismatic in form, and set upright on thesurface they cover.-- Columnar structure (Geol.), a structure consisting of more orless regular columns, usually six-sided, but sometimes with eight ormore sides. The columns are often fractured transversely, with a cupjoint, showing a concave surface above. This structure ischaracteristic of certain igneous rocks, as basalt, and is due tocontraction in cooling.
columnarity: The state or quality of being columnar.
columnated: Having columns; as, columnated temples.
columned: Having columns.Troas and Ilion's columned citadel. Tennyson.
columniation: The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure. Gwilt.
colure: One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in thepoles of the equator. One of them passes through the equinoctialpoints, and hence is denominated the equinoctial colure; the otherintersects the equator at the distance of 90º from the former, and iscalled the solstitial colure.Thrice the equinoctial line He circled; four times crossed the car ofnight From pole to pole, traversing each colure. Milton.
coly: Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera. They inhabitAfrica.
colza: A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for itsseeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricatingpurposes; summer rape.
com-: A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with,together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com-before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col-before l, cor- before r, and con- before any consonant except b, h,l, m, p, r, and w. Before a vowel com- becomes co-; also before h, w,and sometimes before other consonants.
coma: A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult orimpossible to rouse a person. See Carus.
comanches: A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family ofIndians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the UnitedStates; -- called also Paducahs. They are noted for plundering andcruelty.
comart: A covenant. [Obs.] Shak.
comate: Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.
comatose: Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as,comatose sleep; comatose fever.
comatous: Comatose.
comatula: A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera. When youngthey are fixed by a stem. When adult they become detached and clingto seaweeds, etc., by their dorsal cirri; -- called also featherstars.
comatulid: Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.
comb: To disentangle, cleanse, or adjust, with a comb; to lay smoothand straight with, or as with, a comb; as, to comb hair or wool. Seeunder Combing.Comb down his hair; look, look! it stands upright. Shak.
comb-shaped: Pectinate.
combat: To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.To combat with a blind man I disdain. Milton.After the fall of the republic, the Romans combated only for thechoice of masters. Gibbon.
combatable: Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatablefoes, evils, or arguments.
combatant: Contending; disposed to contend. B. Jonson.
combater: One who combats. Sherwood.
combative: (
combativeness: A cranial development supposed to indicate a combativedisposition.
combattant: In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face toface, each rampant.
combbroach: A tooth of a wool comb. [Written also combrouch.]
combe: See Comb.
comber: To cumber. [Obs.] Spenser.
combinable: Capable of combinding; consistent with. [R.] M. Arnold.-- Com*bin"a*ble*ness, n.
combinate: United; joined; betrothed. [R.]
combination: The act or process of uniting by chemical affinity, by whichsubstances unite with each other in definite proportions by weight toform distinct compounds.
combine: In the game of casino, to play a card which will take two ormore cards whose aggregate number of pips equals those of the cardplayed. Combining weight (Chem.), that proportional weight, usuallyreferred to hydrogen as a standard, and for each element fixed andexact, by which an element unites with another to form a distinctcompound. The combining weights either are identical with, or aremultiples or multiples of, the atomic weight. See Atomic weight,under Atomic, a.
combined: United closely; confederated; chemically united.
combinedly: ; jointly.
combiner: One who, or that which, combines.
combing: See Coamings. Combing machine (Textile Manuf.), a machine forcombing wool, flax, cotton, etc., and separating the longer and morevaluable fiber from the shorter. See also Carding machine, underCarding.
combless: Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck.
comboloio: A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads. Byron.
combust: So near the sun as to be obscured or eclipsed by his light, asthe moon or planets when not more than eight degrees and a half fromthe sun. [Obs.]Planets that are oft combust. Milton.
combustibility: The quality of being combustible.
combustible: A substance that may bee set on fire, or which is liable totake fire and burn.All such combustibles as are cheap enough for common use go under thename of fuel. Ure.
combustibleness: Combustibility.
combustion: The combination of a combustible with a supporter ofcombustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.Combustion results is common cases from the mutual chemical actionand reaction of the combustible and the oxygen of the atmosphere,whereby a new compound is formed. Ure.Supporter of combustion (Chem.), a gas as oxygen, the combination ofwhich with a combustible, as coal, constitutes combustion.
combustious: Inflammable. [Obs.] Shak.
come: To carry through; to succeed in; as, you can't come any trickshere. [Slang] To come it, to succeed in a trick of any sort. [Slang]
come-along: A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting oftwo jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on thering.
come-outer: One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or otherorganization; a radical reformer. [Colloq. U. S.]
comedienne: A women who plays in comedy.
comedietta: A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.
comedo: A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., whichon pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retainedoily secretion, with a black head (dirt).
comedown: A downfall; an humillation. [Colloq.]
comedy: A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright andamusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the mannersof society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life; a play inwhich mirth predominates and the termination of the plot is happy; --opposed to tragedy.With all the vivacity if comedy. Macaulay.Are come to play a pleasant comedy. Shak.
comelily: In a suitable or becoming manner. [R.] Sherwood.
comeliness: The quality or state of being comely.Comeliness is a disposing fair Of things and actions in fit time andplace. Sir J. Davies.Strength, comeliness of shape, or amplest merit. Milton.Comeliness signifies something less forcible than beauty, lesselegant than grace, and less light than prettiness. Johnson.
comely: In a becoming manner. Ascham.
comer: One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and ispresent. All comers, all who come, or offer, to take part in amatter, especially in a contest or controversy. "To prove it againstall comers." Bp. Stillingfleet.
comes: The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.
comessation: A reveling; a rioting. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
comestible: Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.Some herbs are most comestible. Sir T. Elyot.
comet: A member of the solar system which usually moves in anelongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion,and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion. Acomet commonly consists of three parts
cometarium: An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a cometround the sun. Hutton.
cometary: Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet. Cheyne.
comether: Matter; affair.
cometic: Relating to a comet.
cometographer: One who describes or writes about comets.
cometography: A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.
cometology: The department of astronomy relating to comets.
comfit: A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preservedwith sugar and dried; a confection.
comfiture: See Comfit, n.
comfort: Unlawful support, countenance, or encouragement; as, to giveaid and comfort to the enemy.
comfortable: A stuffed or quilted coverlet for a bed; a comforter; acomfort. [U. S.]
comfortableness: State of being comfortable or comforting manner.Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. Is. xl. 2.
comfortably: In a comfortable or comforting manner.
comforter: The Holy Spirit, -- reffering to his office of comfortingbelievers.But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will sendin my name, he shall teach you all things. John xiv. 26.
comfortless: Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.Comfortless through turanny or might. Spenser.
comfortment: Act or process of administering comfort. [Obs.]The gentle comfortment and entertainment of the said embassador.Hakluyt.
comfortress: A woman who comforts.To be your comfortress, and to preserve you. B. Jonson.
comfrey: A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of thegenus Symphytum.
comic: A comedian. [Obs.] Steele.
comicality: The quality of being comical; something comical.
comicry: The power of exciting mirth; comicalness. [R.] H. Giles.
comitia: A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers orpassing laws.
comitial: Relating to the comitia, or popular assembles of the Romans forelecting officers and passing laws. Middleton.
comitiva: A body of followers; -- applied to the lawless or brigand bandsin Italy and Sicily.
comity: Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals;friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comityof States. Comity of nations (International Law), the courtesy bywhich nations recognize within their own territory, or in theircourts, the peculiar institutions of another nation or the rights andprivileges acquired by its citizens in their own land. By someauthorities private international law rests on this comity, but thebetter opinion is that it is part of the common law of the land, andhence is obligatory as law.
comma: A small interval (the difference beyween a major and minor halfstep), seldom used except by tuners. Comma bacillus (Physiol.), avariety of bacillus shaped like a comma, found in the intestines ofpatients suffering from cholera. It is considered by some as having aspecial relation to the disease; -- called also cholera bacillus.-- Comma butterfly (Zoöl.), an American butterfly (Grapta comma),having a white comma-shaped marking on the under side of the wings.
commandable: Capable of being commanded.
commandant: A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body ofmen; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.
commandatory: Mandatory; as, commandatory authority. [Obs.]
commandeer: To compel to perform military service; to seize for militarypurposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.
commander: An officer who ranks next below a captain, -- ranking with alieutenant colonel in the army.
commandership: The office of a commander.
commandingly: In a commanding manner.
commandment: One of the ten laws or precepts given by God to the Israelitesat Mount Sinai.
commando: In South Africa, a military body or command; also, sometimes,an expedition or raid; as, a commando of a hundred Boers.
commandress: A woman invested with authority to command. Hooker.
commandry: See Commandery.
commark: The frontier of a country; confines. [Obs.] Shelton.
commaterial: Consisting of the same material. [Obs.] Bacon.
commatic: Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.
commatism: Conciseness in writing. Bp. Horsley.
commeasurable: Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.She being now removed by death, a commeasurable grief took as fullpossession of him as joy had one. I. Walton.
commeasure: To be commensurate with; to equal. Tennyson.
commemorable: Worthy to be commemorated.
commemorate: To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; tocelebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event,by some act of respect of affection, intended to preserve theremembrance of the person or event; as, to commemorate the sufferingsand dying love of our Savior by the sacrament of the Lord's Supper;to commemorate the Declaration of Independence by the observance ofthe Fourth of July.We are called upon to commemorate a revolution. Atterbury.
commemorative: Tending or intended to commemorate. "A sacrifice commemorativeof Christ's offering up his body for us." Hammond.An inscription commemorative of his victory. Sir G. C. Lewis.
commemorator: One who commemorates.
commemoratory: Serving to commemorate; commomerative. Bp. Hooper.
commence: To enter upon; to begin; to perform the first act of.Many a wooer doth commence his suit. Shak.
commend: Compliments; greetings. [Obs.]Hearty commends and much endeared love to you. Howell.
commendable: Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.Order and decent ceremonies in the church are not only comely butcommendable. Bacon.-- Com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.-- Com*mend"a*bly, adv.
commendam: A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually abishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided. A livingso held was said to be held in commendam. The practice was abolishedby law in 1836.There was [formerly] some sense for commendams. Selden.Partnership in commendam. See under Partnership.
commendatary: One who holds a living in commendam.
commendation: A message of affection or respect; compliments; greeting.[Obs.]Hark you, Margaret; No princely commendations to my king Shak.
commendator: One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.Chalmers.
commendatory: A commendation; eulogy. [R.] "Commendatories to our affection."Sharp.
commender: One who commends or praises.
commensal: An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in with, or on,another, partaking usually of the same food. Both species may bebenefited by the association.
commensalism: The act of eating together; table fellowship.
commensality: Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the sametable. [Obs.] "Promiscuous commensality." Sir T. Browne.
commensation: Commensality. [Obs.]Daniel . . . declined pagan commensation. Sir T. Browne.
commensurability: The quality of being commersurable. Sir T. Browne.
commensurable: Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured bythe same number, quantity, or measure.-- Com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n. Commensurable numbers or quantities(Math.), those that can be exactly expressed by some common unit;thus a foot and yard are commensurable, since both can be expressedin terms of an inch, one being 12 inches, the other 36 inches.-- Numbers, or Quantities, commensurable in power, those whosesquares are commensurable.
commensurably: In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.
commensurateness: The state or quality of being commensurate. Foster.
commensuration: The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.All fitness lies in a particular commensuration, or proportion of onething to another. South.
comment: To make remarks, observations, or criticism; especially, towrite notes on the works of an author, with a view to illustrate hismeaning, or to explain particular passages; to write annotations; --often followed by on or upon.A physician to comment on your malady. Shak.Critics . . . proceed to comment on him. Dryden.I must translate and comment. Pope.
commentate: To write comments or notes upon; to make comments. [R.]Commentate upon it, and return it enriched. Lamb.
commentator: One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; anannotator.The commentator's professed object is to explain, to enforce, toillustrate doctrines claimed as true. Whewell.
commentatorial: Pertaining to the making of commentaries. Whewell.
commentatorship: The office or occupation of a commentator.
commenter: One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.
commentitious: Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system ofreligion. [Obs.] Warburton.
commerce destroyer: A very fast, unarmored, lightly armed vessel designed tocapture or destroy merchant vessels of an enemy. Not being intendedto fight, they may be improvised from fast passenger steamers.
commercial: Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied withcommerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercialrelations. "Princely commercial houses." Macaulay. Commercialcollege, a school for giving instruction in commercial knowledge andbusiness.-- Commercial law. See under Law.-- Commercial note paper, a small size of writing paper, usuallyabout 5 by 7½ or 8 inches.-- Commercial paper, negotiable paper given in due course ofbusiness. It includes bills of exchange, promissory notes, bankcheks, etc.-- Commercial traveler, an agent of a wholesale house who travelsfrom town to town to solicit orders.
commercialism: The commercial spirit or method. C. Kingsley.
commercially: In a commercial manner.
commigrate: To migrate together. [R.]
commigration: Migration together. [R.] Woodward.
comminatory: Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms. B.Jonson.
commingle: To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; toblend. Bacon.
commingler: One that commingles; specif., a device for noiseless heating ofwater by steam, in a vessel filled with a porous mass, as of pebbles.
comminute: To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; topulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones;to comminute food with the teeth. Pennant. Comminuted fracture. Seeunder Fracture.
comminution: Fracture (of a bone) into a number of pieces. Dunglison.
commiserable: Pitiable. [Obs.] Bacon.
commiserate: To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.Then must we those, who groan, beneath the weight Of age, disease, orwant, commiserate. Denham.We should commiserate our mutual ignorance. Locke.
commiseration: The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, ordistresses of another; pity; compassion.And pluck commiseration of his state From brassy bosoms and roughhearts of flint. Shak.
commiserative: Feeling or expressing commiseration. Todd.
commiserator: One who pities.
commissarial: Of or pertaining to a commissary.
commissary: An officer on the bishop, who exercises ecclesiasticaljurisdiction in parts of the diocese at a distance from the residenceof the bishop. Ayliffe.
commissaryship: The office or employment of a commissary. Ayliffe.
commissionaire: Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by acommission or warrant. [R.]Delegate or commissionary authority. Bp. Hall.
commissionate: To commission [Obs.]
commissionship: The office of commissioner. Sir W. Scott.
commissive: Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving,commission. [R.]
commissural: Of or pertaining to a commissure.
commissure: The line of junction or cohering face of two carpels, as in theparsnip, caraway, etc.
commit: To sin; esp., to be incontinent. [Obs.]Commit not with man's sworn spouse. Shak.
committable: Capable of being committed.
committal: The act of commiting, or the state of being committed;commitment.
committee: One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter orbussiness is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court,or by any collective body of men acting together. Commitee of thewhole [house], a committee, embracing all the members present, intowhich a legislative or deliberative body sometimes resolves itself,for the purpose of considering a particular measure under theoperation of different rules from those governing the generallegislative proceedings. The committee of the whole has its ownchairman, and reports its action in the form of recommendations.-- Standing committee. See under Standing.
committeeman: A member of a committee.
committible: Capable of being committed; liable to be committed. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
commix: To mix or mingle together; to blend.The commixed impressions of all the colors do stir up and beget asensation of white. Sir I. Newton.To commix With winds that sailors rail at. Shak.
commixion: Commixture. Shak.
commixtion: Commixture; mingling. [R.]An exact commixtion of the ingredients. Boyle.
commodate: A gratuitous loan.
commodious: Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities;serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, acommodious house. "A commodious drab." Shak. "Commodious gold." Pope.The haven was not commodious to winter in. Acts. xxvii. 12.
commodiously: In a commodious manner.To pass commodiously this life. Milton.
commodiousness: State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose;convience; roominess.Of cities, the greatness and riches increase according to thecommodiousness of their situation. Sir W. Temple.The commodiousness of the harbor. Johnson.
commodore: An officer who ranks next above a captain; sometimes, bycourtesy, the senior captain of a squadron. The rank of commodorecorresponds with that of brigadier general in the army.
common: The right of taking a profit in the land of another, in commoneither with the owner or with other persons; -- so called from thecommunity of interest which arises between the claimant of the rightand the owner of the soil, or between the claimants and othercommoners entitled to the same right. Common appendant, a rightbelonging to the owners or occupiers of arable land to put commonablebeasts upon the waste land in the manor where they dwell.-- Common appurtenant, a similar right applying to lands in othermanors, or extending to other beasts, besides those which aregenerally commonable, as hogs.-- Common because of vicinage or neighborhood, the right of theinhabitants of each of two townships, lying contiguous to each other,which have usually intercommoned with one another, to let theirbeasts stray into the other's fields.-- Common in gross or at large, a common annexed to a man's person,being granted to him and his heirs by deed; or it may be claimed byprescriptive right, as by a parson of a church or other corporationsole. Blackstone.-- Common of estovers, the right of taking wood from another'sestate.-- Common of pasture, the right of feeding beasts on the land ofanother. Burill.-- Common of piscary, the right of fishing in waters belonging toanother.-- Common of turbary, the right of digging turf upon the ground ofanother.
common sense: See Common sense, under Sense.
commonage: The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anythingin common with others.The claim of comonage . . . in most of the forests. Burke.
commonish: Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar.
commonition: Advice; warning; instruction. [Obs.] Bailey.
commonitive: Monitory. [Obs.]Only commemorative and commonitive. Bp. Hall.
commonitory: Calling to mind; giving admonition. [Obs.] Foxe.
commonplace: Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, orobservation.
commonplaceness: The quality of being commonplace; commonness.
commonty: A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have acommon right. Bell.
commonweal: Commonwealth.Such a prince, So kind a father of the commonweal. Shak.
commonwealth: Specifically, the form of government established on the deathof Charles I., in 1649, which existed under Oliver Cromwell and hisson Richard, ending with the abdication of the latter in 1659.
commorance: See Commorancy.
commorancy: A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.Commorancy consists in usually lying there. Blackstone.
commorant: Ordinarily residing; inhabiting.All freeholders within the precinct . . . and all persons commoranttherein. Blackstone.
commoration: The act of staying or residing in a place. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
commorient: Dying together or at the same time. [R.] Sir G. Buck.
commorse: Remorse. [Obs.] "With sad commorse." Daniel.
commote: To commove; to disturb; to stir up. [R.]Society being more or less commoted and made uncomfortable.Hawthorne.
communal: Pertaining to a commune.
communalism: A French theory of government which holds that commune shouldbe a kind of independent state, and the national government aconfederation of such states, having only limited powers. It isadvocated by advanced French republicans; but it should not beconfounded with communism.
communalist: An advocate of communalism.
communalistic: Pertaining to communalism.
commune: Communion; sympathetic intercourse or conversation betweenfriends.For days of happy commune dead. Tennyson.
communicability: The quality of being communicable; capability of beingimparted.
communicant: Communicating. [R.] Coleridge.
communication: A trope, by which a speaker assumes that his hearer is apartner in his sentiments, and says we, instead of I or you. Beattie.
communicative: Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others.Determine, for the future, to be less communicative. Swift.
communicativeness: The quality of being communicative. Norris.
communicator: One who communicates. Boyle.
communicatory: Imparting knowledge or information.Canonical and communicatory letters. Barrow.
communism: A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life;specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition ofinequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing allwealth equally to all, or by holding all wealth in common for theequal use and advantage of all.
communistic: Living or having their nests in common, as certain birds.
commutability: The quality of being commutable.
commutable: Capable of being commuted or interchanged.The predicate and subject are not commutable. Whately.
commutableness: The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness.
commutation: The change of a penalty or punishment by the pardoning power ofthe State; as, the commutation of a sentence of death to banishmentor imprisonment.Suits are allowable in the spiritual courts for money agreed to begiven as a commutation for penance. Blackstone.
commutation ticket: A ticket for transportation at a reduced rate in considerationof some special circumstance, as increase of travel; specif., aticket for a certain number of, or for daily, trips betweenneighboring places at a reduced rate, such as are commonly used bythose doing business in a city and living in a suburb. Commutationtickets are excepted from the prohibition against special ratescontained in the Interstate Commerce Act of Feb. 4, 1887 (24 Stat.379), and in 145 U. S. 263 it was held that party tickets were alsoexcepted as being "obviously within the commuting principle."
commutative: Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal.-- Com*mut"a*tive"ly, adv.Rich traders, from their success, are presumed . . . to havecultivated an habitual regard to commutative justice. Burke.
commutator: A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of anelectrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, bymeans of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or tohave the same direction.
commute: To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of,as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or asingle thing for an aggregate; hence; to lessen; to diminish; as, tocommute a sentence of death to one of imprisonment for life; tocommute tithes; to commute charges for fares.The sounds water and fire, being once annexed to those two elements,it was certainly more natural to call beings participating of thefirst "watery", and the last "fiery", than to commute the terms, andcall them by the reverse. J. HarrisThe utmost that could be obtained was that her sentence should becommuted from burning to beheading. Macaulay.
commuter: One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling.
commutual: Mutual; reciprocal; united. [R.]There, with commutual zeal, we both had strove. Pope.
comose: Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed.Gray.
compact: An agreement between parties; a covenant or contract.The law of nations depends on mutual compacts, treaties, leagues,etc. Blackstone.Wedlock is described as the indissoluble compact. Macaulay.The federal constitution has been styled a compact between the Statesby which it was ratified. Wharton.
compacted: Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united.
compactedly: In a compact manner.
compactedness: A state of being compact.
compacter: One who makes a compact.
compactible: That may be compacted.
compaction: The act of making compact, or the state of being compact.[Obs.] Bacon.
compactly: In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely;tersely.
compactness: The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts;density.
compacture: Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining;construction. [Obs.] "With comely compass and compacture strong."Spenser.
compages: A system or structure of many parts united.A regular compages of pipes and vessels. Ray.
compaginate: To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate theframe. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
compagination: Union of parts; structure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
companable: Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Chaucer.
companator: Same as Impanator.
companiable: Companionable; sociable. [Obs.] Bacon.
companionable: Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable;sociable. "Each companionable guest." Mallett. "Companionable wit."Clarendon.-- Com*pan"ion*a*ble*ness, n.-- Com*pan"ion*a*bly, adv.
companionless: Without a companion.
companionship: Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping companywith any one. Shak.He never seemed to avail himself of my sympathy other than by merecompanionship. W. Irwing
company: A subdivision of a regiment of troops under the command of acaptain, numbering in the United States (full strength) 100 men.
comparable: Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison.There is no blessing of life comparable to the enjoyment of adiscreet and virtuous friend. Addison.-- Com"pa*ra*ble*ness, n.-- Com"pa*ra*bly, adv.
comparate: One of two things compared together.
comparation: A making ready; provision. [Obs.]
comparative: Expressing a degree greater or less than the positive degree ofthe quality denoted by an adjective or adverb. The comparative degreeis formed from the positive by the use of -er, more, or less; as,brighter, more bright, or less bright. Comparative sciences, thosewhich are based on a comprehensive comparison of the range of objectsor facts in any branch or department, and which aim to study out andtreat of the fundamental laws or systems of relation pervading them;as, comparative anatomy, comparative physiology, comparativephilology.
comparatively: According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; notpositively or absolutely.With but comparatively few exceptions. Prescott.
comparator: An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measuredwith a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine forcomparing standards of length.
compare: To inflect according to the degrees of comparison; to statepositive, comparative, and superlative forms of; as, most adjectivesof one syllable are compared by affixing "-er" and "-est" to thepositive form; as, black, blacker, blackest; those of more than onesyllable are usually compared by prefixing "more" and "most", or"less" and "least", to the positive; as, beautiful, more beautiful,most beautiful.
comparer: One who compares.
comparison: The modification, by inflection or otherwise, which theadjective and adverb undergo to denote degrees of quality orquantity; as, little, less, least, are examples of comparison.
compart: To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions. [R.]The crystal surface is comparted all In niches verged with rubies.Glover.
compartition: The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also,a division or compartment. [Obs.]Their temples . . . needed no compartitions. Sir H. Wotton.
compartment: One of the sections into which the hold of a ship is divided bywater-tight bulkheads.
compartner: See Copartner. [Obs.]
compass: The range of notes, or tones, within the capacity of a voice orinstument.You would sound me from my lowest note to the top of my compass.Shak.
compassable: Capable of being compassed or accomplished. Burke.
compassed: Rounded; arched. [Obs.]She came . . . into the compassed window. Shak.
compasses: An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc.,consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs,usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.
compassing: Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.
compassion: Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrowexcited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity;commiseration.Womanly igenuity set to work by womanly compassion. Macaulay.
compassionable: Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable. [R.] Barrow.
compassionate: To have compassion for; to pity; to commiserate; to sympathizewith.Compassionates my pains, and pities me. Addison.
compassionately: In a compassionate manner; mercifully. Clarendon.
compassionateness: The quality or state of being compassionate.
compassless: Having no compass. Knowles.
compaternity: The relation of a godfather to a person. [Obs.]The relation of gossipred or compaternity by the cannon law is aspiritual affinity. Sir J. Da
compatibility: The quality or power of being compatible or congruous;congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility ofproperties.
compatible: Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; notrepugnant; -- usually followed by with.Our poets have joined together such qualities as are by nature themost compatible. Broome.
compatibleness: Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.
compatibly: In a compatible manner.
compatient: Suffering or enduring together. [Obs.] Sir G. Buck.
compatriot: One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling.The distrust with which they felt themselves to be regarded by theircompatriots in America. Palfrey.
compatriotism: The condition of being compatriots.
compear: To appear in court personally or by attorney. [Scot]
compeer: An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; acomrade; a mate.And him thus answer 'd soon his bold compeer. Milton.
compel: To make one yield or submit. "If she can not entreat, I can notcompel." Shak.
compellable: Capable of being compelled or constrained. Blackstone.
compellably: By compulsion.
compellation: Style of address or salutation; an appellation. "Metaphoricalcompellations." Milton.He useth this endearing compellation, "My little children." Bp.Beveridge.The peculiar compellation of the kings in France is by "Sire," whichis nothing else but father. Sir W. Temple.
compellative: The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative.
compellatory: Serving to compel; compulsory. [R.]
compeller: One who compels or constrains.
compend: A compendium; an epitome; a summary.A compend and recapitulation of the Mosaical law. Bp. Burnet.
compendiarious: Short; compendious. [Obs.] Bailey.
compendiate: To sum or collect together. [Obs.] Bp. King.
compendious: Containing the substance oe general principles of a subject orwork in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized.More compendious and exeditious ways. Woodward.Three things be required in the oration of a man having authority --that it be compendious, sententious, and delectable. Sir T. Elyot.
compendiously: In a compendious manner.Compendiously exressed by the word chaos. Bentley.
compendiousness: The state or quality of being compendious.
compendium: A brief compilation or composition, containing the principalheads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; anabridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.A short system or compendium of a sience. I. Watts.
compensate: To make amends; to supply an equivalent; -- followed by for;as, nothing can compensate for the loss of reputation.
compensative: Affording compensation.
compensator: An iron plate or magnet placed near the compass on iron vesselsto neutralize the effect of the ship's attraction on the needle.
compensatory: Serving for compensation; making amends. Jer. Taylor.
compense: To compensate. [Obs.] Bacon.
comperendinate: To delay. Bailey.
compesce: To hold in check; to restrain. [R.] Carlyle.
compete: To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing,position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend inrivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete withone another.The rival statesmen, with eyes fixed on America, were all the whilecompeting for European alliances. Bancroft.
competently: In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.
competible: Compatible; suitable; consistent. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
competition: The act of seeking, or endevearing to gain, what another isendeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the sameobjects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as forapprobation, for a prize, or as where two or more persons are engagedin the same business and each seeking patronage; -- followed by forbefore the object sought, and with before the person or thingcompeted with.Competition to the crown there is none, nor can be. Bacon.A portrait, with which one of Titian's could not come incompetititon. Dryden.There is no competition but for the second place. Dryden.Where competition does not act at all there is complete monopoly. A.T. Hadley.
competitive: Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition;competitory; as, a competitive examination.
competitory: Acting in competition; competing; rival.
competitress: A woman who competes.
competitrix: A competitress.
compilator: Compiler. [Obs.]
compilement: Compilation. [R.]
compiler: One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation.
compinge: To compress; to shut up. [Obs.] Burton.
complacent: Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; acomplacent smile.They look up with a sort of complacent awe . . . to kings. Burke.
complacential: Marked by, or causing, complacence. [Obs.] "Complacentiallove." Baxter.
complacently: In a complacent manner.
complain: To lament; to bewail. [Obs.]They might the grievance inwardly complain. Daniel.By chaste Lucrece's soul that late complain'd Her wrongs to us. Shak.
complainable: That may be complained of. [R.] Feltham.
complainer: One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer.Beattie.Speechless complainer, I will learn thy thought. Shak.
complaint: A formal allegation or charge against a party made or presentedto the appropriate court or officer, as for a wrong done or a crimecommitted (in the latter case, generally under oath); an information;accusation; the initial bill in proceedings in equity.
complaintful: Full of complaint. [Obs.]
complaisance: Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with thewishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please;courtesy; civility.These [ladies] . . . are by the just complaisance and gallantry ofour nation the most powerful part of our people. Addison.They strive with their own hearts and keep them down, In complaisanceto all the fools in town. Young.
complaisant: Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, acomplaisant gentleman.There are to whom my satire seems too bold
complanar: See Coplanar.
complanate: Flattened to a level surface. [R.]
complected: Complexioned. [Low, New Eng.]
complement: A second quantity added to a given quantity to make equal to athird given quantity.
complementary: Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers.Complementary colors. See under Color.-- Complementary angles (Math.), two angles whose sum is 90°.
complete: Having all the parts or organs which belong to it or to thetypical form; having calyx, corolla, stamens, and pistil.
completely: In a complete manner; fully.
completement: Act of completing or perfecting; completion. [Obs.] Dryden.
completeness: The state of being complete.
completive: Making complete. [R.] J. Harris.
completory: Serving to fulfill.Completory of ancient presignifications. Barrow.
complex: Assemblage of related things; colletion; complication.This parable of the wedding supper comprehends in it the wholecomplex of all the blessings and privileges exhibited by the gospel.South.Complex of lines (Geom.), all the possible straight lines in spacebeing considered, the entire system of lines which satisfy a singlerelation constitute a complex; as, all the lines which meet a givencurve make up a complex. The lines which satisfy two relationsconstitute a congruency of lines; as, the entire system of lines,each one of which meets two given surfaces, is a congruency.
complexed: Complex, complicated. [Obs.] "Complexed significations." Sir T.Browne.
complexedness: The quality or state of being complex or involved;complication.The complexedness of these moral ideas. Locke.
complexional: Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion.A moral rather than a complexional timidity. Burke.
complexionally: Constitutionally. [R.]Though corruptible, not complexionally vicious. Burke.
complexionary: Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it. Jer.Taylor.
complexioned: Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark-complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person.A flower is the best-complexioned grass, as a pearl is the best-colored clay. Fuller.
complexly: In a complex manner; not simply.
complexness: The state of being complex; complexity. A. Smith.
complexus: A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication.
compliable: Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant.Another compliable mind. Milton.The Jews . . . had made their religion compliable, and accemodated totheir passions. Jortin.
compliancy: Compliance; disposition to yield to others. Goldsmith.
compliant: Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive. "The compliant boughs."Milton.
compliantly: In a compliant manner.
complicacy: A state of being complicate or intricate. Mitford.
complicant: Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles.
complicate: Folded together, or upon itself, with the fold runninglengthwise.
complicately: In a complex manner.
complicateness: Complexity. Sir M. Hale.
complication: A disease or diseases, or adventitious circumstances orconditions, coexistent with and modifying a primary disease, but notnecessarily connected with it.
complice: An accomplice. [Obs.]To quell the rebels and their complices. Shak.
complicity: The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.
complier: One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yieldytemper. Swift.
compliment: An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard,confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech orattention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to afriend.Tedious waste of time, to sit and hear So many hollow compliments andlies. Milton.Many a compliment politely penned. Cowper.To make one a compliment, to show one respect; to praise one in aflattering way.Locke.-- To make one's compliments to, to offer formal courtesias to.-- To stand on compliment, to treat with ceremony.
complimental: Complimentary. [Obs.]Languages . . . grow rich and abundant in complimental phrases, andsuch froth. Sir H. Wotton.-- Com`pli*men"tal*ly, adv. [Obs.] Boyle.-- Com`pli*men"tal*ness, n. [Obs.] Hammond.
complimentary: Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, orcontaining, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentaryticket. "Complimentary addresses." Prescott.
complimentative: Complimentary. [R.] Boswell.
complimenter: One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.
complot: A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; aconspiracy.I know their complot is to have my life. Shak.
complotment: A plotting together. [R.]
complotter: One joined in a plot. Dryden.
complutensian: Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a citynear Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.
compluvium: A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling,through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.
comply: To infold; to embrace. [Obs.]Seemed to comply, Cloudlike, the daintie deitie. Herrick.
compo: Short for Composition; -- used, esp. in England, colloq. invarious trade applications; as :(a) A mortar made of sand and cement.(b) A carver's mixture of resin, whiting, and glue, used  instead ofplaster of Paris for ornamenting walls and cornices.(c) A composition for billiard balls.(d) A preparation of which printer's rollers are made.(e) A preparation used in currying leather.(f) Composition paid by a debtor.
compone: To compose; to settle; to arrange. [Obs.]A good pretense for componing peace. Strype.
component: Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting;constituent.The component parts of natural bodies. Sir I. Newton.
comport: Manner of acting; behavior; conduct; deportment. [Obs.]I knew them well, and marked their rude comport. Dryden.
comportable: Suitable; consistent. [Obs.] "Some comportable method." Wotton.
comportance: Behavior; comport. [Obs.]Goodly comportance each to other bear. Spenser.
comportation: A bringing together. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.
comportment: Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.A graceful comportment of their bodies. Cowley.Her serious and devout comportment. Addison.
compos-mentis: One who is compos mentis. [Colloq.]
compose: To arrange (types) in a composing stick in order for printing;to set (type).
composed: Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self-possessed.The Mantuan there in sober triumph sate, Composed his posture, andhis look sedate. Pope.-- Com*pos"ed*ly (, adv.-- Com*pos"ed*ness, n.
compositae: A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowersarranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthersunited in a tube. The daisy, dandelion, and asters, are examples.
composite: Belonging to a certain order which is composed of the Ionicorder grafted upon the Corinthian. It is called also the Roman or theItalic order, and is one of the five orders recognized by the Italianwriters of the sixteenth century. See Capital.
composition: The adjustment of a debt, or avoidance of an obligation, bysome form of compensation agreed on between the parties; also, thesum or amount of compensation agreed upon in the adjustment.Compositions for not taking the order of knighthood. Hallam.Cleared by composition with their creditors. Blackstone.
compositive: Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.[R.]
compositor: One who sets type and arranges it for use.
compositous: Belonging to the Compositæ; composite. [R.] Darwin.
compossible: Able to exist with another thing; consistent. [R.]Chillingworth.
compost: A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of varioussubstances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughlymingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.And do not spread the compost on the weeds To make them ranker. Shak.
composture: Manure; compost. [Obs.] Shak.
compotation: The act of drinking or tippling together. [R.]The fashion of compotation. Sir W. Scott.
compotator: One who drinks with another. [R.] Pope.
compote: A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserveits form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.Littr
compotier: A dish for holding compotes, fruit, etc.
compound: In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house,outbuildings, etc.
compound control: A system of control in which a separate manipulation, as of arudder, may be effected by either of two movements, in differentdirections, of a single lever, etc.
compoundable: That may be compounded.
compounder: A Jacobite who favored the restoration of James II, oncondition of a general amnesty and of guarantees for the security ofthe civil and ecclesiastical constitution of the realm.
comprador: A kind of steward or agent. [China] S. W. Williams
comprecation: A praying together. [Obs.] Bp. Wilkins.
comprehensibility: The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability ofbeing understood.
comprehensibleness: The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.
comprehension: The complement of attributes which make up the notion signifiedby a general term.
comprehensive: Possessing peculiarities that are characteristic of severaldiverse groups.
comprehensively: In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.
comprehensiveness: The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.Compare the beauty and comprehensiveness of legends on ancient coins.Addison.
comprehensor: One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.[Obs.]When I shall have dispatched this weary pilgrimage, and from atraveler shall come to be a comprehensor, farewell faith and welcomevision. Bp. Hall.
compress: A folded piece of cloth, pledget of lint, etc., used to coverthe dressing of wounds, and so placed as, by the aid of a bandage, tomake due pressure on any part.
compressed: Flattened lengthwise. Compessed air engine, an engine operatedby the elastic force of compressed air.
compressed yeast: A cake yeast made by filtering the cells from the liquid inwhich they are grown, subjecting to heavy pressure, and mixing withstarch or flour.
compressibility: The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as,the compressibility of elastic fluids.
compressible: Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrowercompass, as an elastic or spongy substance.
compressibleness: The quality of being compressible; compressibility.
compression: The act of compressing, or state of being compressed."Compression of thought." Johnson.
compression projectile: A projectile constructed so as to take the grooves of a rifleby means of a soft copper band firmly attached near its base or,formerly, by means of an envelope of soft metal. In small arms themodern projectile, having a soft core and harder jacket, is subjectedto compression throughout the entire cylindrical part.
compressive: Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, acompressive force.
compressor: Anything which serves to compress; as:(a) (Anat.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.(b) (Surg.) An instrument for compressing an artery (esp., thefemoral artery) or other part.(c) An apparatus for confining or flattening between glass plates anobject to be examined with the microscope; -- called alsocompressorium.(d) (Mach.) A machine for compressing gases; especially, an aircompressor.
compressure: Compression.
comprint: To print surreptitiously a work belonging to another. E.Phillips.
comprisal: The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium orepitome.A comprisal . . . and sum of all wickedness. Barrow.
comprise: To comprehend; to include.Comprise much matter in few words. Hocker.Friendship does two souls in one comprise. Roscommon.
comprobate: To agree; to concur. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
compromiser: One who compromises.
compromissorial: Relating to compromise. [R.] Chalmers.
comprovincial: Belonging to, or associated in, the same province. [Obs.] -- n.
compsognathus: A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, andremarkable for having several birdlike features.
compt: Account; reckoning; computation. [Obs.] Shak.
compte rendu: A report of an officer or agent.
compter: A counter. [Obs.] Shak.
comptible: Accountable; responsible; sensitive. [Obs.]I am very comptible even to the least sinister usage. Shak.
comptly: Neatly. [Obs.] Sherwood.
comptograph: A machine for adding numbers and making a printed record of thesum.
comptometer: A calculating machine; an arithmometer.
comptrol: See Control.
comptroler: A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examinecertify accounts.
compulsative: Compulsatory. [R.] Shak.
compulsatively: By compulsion. [R.]
compulsatory: Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraininig;resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion. [R.]To recover of us, by strong hand And terms compulsatory, thoseforesaid lands. Shak.
compulsion: The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the actof driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint;subjection to force.If reasons were as plentiful as blackberries, I would give no man areason upon compulsion. Shak.With what complusion and laborious flight We sunk thus low. Milton.
compulsive: Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.Religion is . . . inconsistent with all compulsive motives. Sharp.
compulsively: By compulsion; by force.
compulsorily: ; by force or constraint.
compunct: Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken. [Obs.]
compunctionless: Without compunction.
compunctious: Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attendedwith, or causing, compunction.That no compunctious vistings of nature Shake my fell purpose. Shak.
compunctiously: With compunction.
compunctive: Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
compurgation: The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man'sveracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law. SeePurgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.
compurgator: One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocenceof another. See Purgation; also Wager of law, under Wager.All they who know me . . . will say they have reason in this matterto be my compurgators. Chillingworth.
compurgatorial: Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation. "Theircompurgatorial oath." Milman.
computable: Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.Not easily computable by arithmetic. Sir M. Hale.
compute: To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.Two days, as we compute the days of heaven. Milton.What's done we partly may compute, But know not what's resisted.Burns.
computer: One who computes.
computist: A computer.
comrade: A mate, companion, or associate.And turned my flying comrades to the charge. J. Baillie.I abjure all roofs, and choose . . . To be a comrade with the wolfand owl. Shak.
comradery: The spirit of comradeship; comradeship. [R.]"Certainly", said Dunham, with the comradery of the smoker. W. D.Howells.
comradeship: The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.
comrogue: A fellow rogue. [Obs.]
comtism: Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.
comtist: A disciple of Comte; a positivist.
con: Against the affirmative side; in opposition; on the negativeside; -- The antithesis of pro, and usually in connection with it.See Pro.
conacre: To underlet a proportion of, for a single crop; -- said of afarm. [Ireland]
conarium: The pineal gland.
conation: The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind,whether muscular or psychical.Of conation, in other words, of desire and will. J. S. Mill.
conative: Of or pertaining to conation.This division of mind into the three great classes of the cognitivefaculties, the feelings, . . . and the exertive or conative powers, .. . was first promulgated by Kant. Sir W. Hamilton.
conatus: A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; anattempt; an effort.What conatus could give prickles to the porcupine or hedgehog, or tothe sheep its fleece Paley.
concatenate: To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as thingsdepending on one another.This all things friendly will concatenate. Dr. H. More
concatenation: A series of links united; a series or order of things dependingon each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.The stoics affirmed a fatal, unchangeable concatenation of causes,reaching even to the illicit acts of man's will. South.A concatenation of explosions. W. Irving.
concause: A joint cause. Fotherby.
concavation: The act of making concave.
concave: A curved sheath or breasting for a revolving cylinder or roll.
concaved: Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched.
concaveness: Hollowness; concavity.
concavity: A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state ofbeing concave.
concavo-concave: Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.
concavo-convex: Specifically, having such a combination of concave and convexsides as makes the focal axis the shortest line between them. SeeIllust. under Lens.
concavous: Concave. Abp. potter.-- Con*ca"vous*ly, adv.
conceal: To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover orkeep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledgeof.It is the glory of God to conceal a thing. Prov. xxv. 2.Declare ye among the nations, . . . publish and conceal not. Jer. 1.2.He which finds him shall deserve our thanks, . . . He that concealshim, death. Shak.
concealable: Capable of being concealed.
concealed: Hidden; kept from sight; secreted.-- Con*ceal"ed*ly (, adv.-- Con*ceal"ed*ness, n. Concealed weapons (Law), dangerous weaponsso carried on the person as to be knowingly or willfully concealedfrom sight, -- a practice forbidden by statute.
concealer: One who conceals.
concealment: Suppression of such facts and circumstances as in justice oughtto be made known. Wharton.
concede: To yield or make concession.I wished you to concede to America, at a time when she prayedconcession at our feet. Burke.
conceit: To conceive; to imagine. [Archaic]The strong, by conceiting themselves weak, are therebly rendered asinactive . . . as if they really were so. South.One of two bad ways you must conceit me, Either a coward or aflatterer. Shak.
conceitedness: The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity. Addison.
conceitless: Without wit; stupid. [Obs.]Think'st thou I am so shallow, so conceitless. To be seduced by thyflattery Shak.
conceivable: Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood. "Anyconceivable weight." Bp. Wilkins.It is not conceivable that it should be indeed that very person whoseshape and voice it assumed. Atterbury.-- Con*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.-- Con*ceiv"a*bly, adv.
conceiver: One who conceives.
concelebrate: To celebrate together. [Obs.] Holland.
concent: To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a commoncenter; to have a common center.God, in whom all perfections concenter. Bp. Beveridge.
concentrate: To approach or meet in a common center; to consolidate; as,population tends to concentrate in cities.
concentration: The act or process of removing the dress of ore and of reducingthe valuable part to smaller compass, as by currents of air or water.
concentrative: Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized byconcentration.A discrimination is only possible by a concentrative act, or act ofattention. Sir W. Hamilton.
concentrativeness: The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentratingthe intellectual the intellectual powers. Combe.
concentrator: An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, byexposing it to intermittent puffs of air. Knight.
concentric: That which has a common center with something else.Its pecular relations to its concentrics. Coleridge.
concentrically: In a concentric manner.
concentricity: The state of being concentric.
concentual: Possesing harmony; accordant. [R.] Warton.
concept: An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal.The words conception, concept, notion, should be limited to thethought of what can not be represented in the imagination; as, thethought suggested by a general term. Sir W. Hamilton.
conceptibility: The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness. Cudworth.
conceptible: Capable of being conceived; conceivable. Sir M. Hale.
conceptional: Pertaining to conception.
conceptionalist: A conceptualist.
conceptious: Apt to conceive; fruitful. [Obs.] Shak.
conceptive: Capable of conceiving. Sir T. Browne
conceptual: Pertaining to conception.
conceptualism: A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that themind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions ofindividual or single objects. Stewart.
conceptualist: One who maintains the theory of conceptualism. Stewart.
concern: To be of importance. [Obs.]Which to deny concerns more than avails. Shak.
concerned: Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned forthe safety of a friend.
concernedly: In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically.
concerning: Pertaining to; regarding; having relation to; respecting; asregards.I have accepted thee concerning this thing. Gen. xix. 21.The Lord hath spoken good concerning Israel. Num. x. 29.
concert: To act in harmony or conjunction; to form combined plans.The ministers of Denmark were appointed to concert with Talbot. Bp.Burnet
concert of the powers: An agreement or understanding between the chief Europeanpowers, the United States, and Japan in 1900 to take only jointaction in the Chinese aspect of the Eastern Question.
concertante: A concert for two or more principal instruments, withorchestral accompaniment. Also adjectively; as, concertante parts.
concertation: Strife; contention. [Obs.] Bailey.
concertative: Contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Bailey.
concerted: Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concertedschemes, signals. Concerted piece (Mus.), a composition in parts forseveral voices or instrument, as a trio, a quartet, etc.
concertina: A small musical imstrument on the principle of the accordion.It is a small elastic box, or bellows, having free reeds on theinside, and keys and handles on the outside of each of the twohexagonal heads.
concertino: A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; --more concise than the concerto.
concertion: Act of concerting; adjustment. [R.] Young.
concertmeister: The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra;the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master.
concerto: A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements)in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold reliefagainst the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display itsqualities or the performer's skill.
concession: The beneficiary of a concession or grant.
concessionary: Of or pertaining to a concession. -- n.; pl. -ries.
concessionist: One who favors concession.
concessive: Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction. Lowth.
concessively: By way of concession.
concessory: Conceding; permissive.
concettism: The use of concetti or affected conceits. [R.] C. Kingsley.
concetto: Affected wit; a conceit. Chesterfield.
conch: A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to thoseof the genus Strombus, which are of large size. S. gigas is the largepink West Indian conch. The large king, queen, and cameo conchs areof the genus Cassis. See Cameo.
concha: The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entireapse.
conchal: Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchalcartilage.
conchifer: One of the Conchifera.
conchifera: That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; theLamellibranchiata. See Mollusca.
conchiferous: Producing or having shells.
conchiform: Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped.
conchinine: See Quinidine.
conchite: A fossil or petrified conch or shell.
conchitic: Composed of shells; containing many shells.
concho-spiral: A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells.Agassiz.
conchoid: A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greekgeometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting anangle and duplicating the cube.
conchoidal: Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of abivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced byfracture.
conchological: Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.
conchologist: One who studies, or is versed in, conchology.
conchology: The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form;malacology.
conchometer: An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of theirspire.
conchometry: The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.
conchyliometry: Same as Conchometry.
conchylious: Conchylaceous.
conciator: The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be madeinto glass, and who works and tempers them.
concierge: One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; adoorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.
conciliable: A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiasticalnature. [Obs.] Bacon.
conciliabule: An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable. Milman.
conciliate: To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain thegood will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate;to appease.The rapacity of his father's administration had excited suchuniversal discontent, that it was found expedient to conciliate thenation. Hallam.
conciliation: The act or process of conciliating; the state of beingconciliated.The house has gone further; it has declared conciliation admissibleprevious to any submission on the part of America. Burke.
conciliative: Conciliatory. Coleridge.
conciliator: One who conciliates.
conciliatory: Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.The only alternative, therefore, was to have recourse to theconciliatory policy. Prescott.
concinnate: To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear. [Obs.] Holland.
concinnity: Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts;elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse. [R.]An exact concinnity and eveness of fancy. Howell.
concinnous: Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant. [R.]The most concinnous and most rotund of proffessors, M. Heyne. DeQuiency.
concionate: To preach. [Obs.] Lithgow.
concionator: A common councilman. [Obs.]
concionatory: Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses. [Obs.]Howell.
concise: Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted;-- used of style in writing or speaking.The concise style, which expresseth not enough, but leaves somewhatto be understood. B. Jonson.Where the author is . . . too brief and concise, amplify a little. I.Watts.
concisely: In a concise manner; briefly.
conciseness: The quality of being concise.
concision: A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction. South.
concitation: The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating. [Obs.] "Theconcitation of humors." Sir T. Browne.
concite: To excite or stir up. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
conclamation: An outcry or shout of many together. [R.]Before his funeral conclamation. May (Lucan).
conclavist: One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal inthe conclave.
concludency: Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion. [Obs.] Sir M.Hale.
concludent: Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive. [Obs.]Arguments highly consequential and concludent to my purpose. Sir M.Hale.
concluder: One who concludes.
concludingly: Conclusively. [R.] Digby.
conclusible: Demonstrable; determinable. [Obs.] Hammond.
conclusion: The inferred proposition of a syllogism; the necessaryconsequence of the conditions asserted in two related propositionscalled premises. See Syllogism.He granted him both the major and minor, but denied him theconclusion. Addison.
conclusive: Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing;putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, aconclusion or decision.Secret reasons . . . equally conclusive for us as they were for them.Rogers.Conclusive evidence (Law), that of which, from its nature, the lawallows no contradiction or explanation.-- Conclusive presumption (Law), an inference which the law makes soperemptorily that it will not allow it to be overthrown by anycontrary proof, however strong.
conclusively: In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively. Burke.
conclusiveness: The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness.
conclusory: Conclusive. [R.]
concocter: One who concocts.
concoction: Abatement of a morbid process, as a fever and return to anormal condition. [Obs.]
concoctive: Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive.Hence the concoctive powers, with various art, Subdue the cruderaliments to chyle. J. Armstrong.
concolor: Of the same color; of uniform color. [R.] "Concolor animals."Sir T. Browne.
concolorous: Of the same color throughout.
concomitant: Accompanying; conjoined; attending.It has pleased our wise Creator to annex to several objects, as alsoto several of our thoughts, a concomitant pleasure. Locke.
concomitantly: In company with others; unitedly; concurrently. Bp. pearson.
concord: Agreement of words with one another, in gender, number, person,or case.
concord buggy: A kind of buggy having a body with low sides, and side springs.
concordable: Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious.
concordance: Concord; agreement. [Obs.] Aschlam.
concordancy: Agreement. W. Montagu.
concordant: Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant.Were every one employed in points concordant to their natures,professions, and arts, commonwealths would rise up of themselves. SirT. Browne
concordantly: In a concordant manner.
concordist: The compiler of a concordance.
concorporate: To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate. [Archaic.] Jer.Taylor.
concorporation: Union of things in one mass or body. [R.] Dr. H. More.
concreate: To create at the same time.If God did concreate grace with Adam. Jer. Taylor.
concremation: The act of burning different things together. [Obs.]
concrement: A growing together; the collection or mass formed byconcretion, or natural union. [Obs.]The concrement of a pebble or flint. Sir M. Hale
concrescence: Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition ofparticles. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.
concrescible: Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state. [Obs.]They formed a . . . fixed concrescible oil. Fourcroy (Trans. ).
concrescive: Growing together, or into union; uniting. [R.] Eclec. Rev.
concrete: A term designating both a quality and the subject in which itexists; a concrete term.The concretes "father" and "son" have, or might have, the abstracts"paternity" and "filiety". J. S. Mill.
concretely: In a concrete manner.
concreteness: The quality of being concrete.
concretion: A rounded mass or nodule produced by an aggregation of thematerial around a center; as, the calcareous concretions common inbeds of clay.
concretional: Concretionary.
concretionary: Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation;producing or containing concretions.
concretive: Promoting concretion. Sir T. Browne.
concretively: In a concrete manner.
concreture: A mass formed by concretion. [Obs.] Johnson.
concrew: To grow together. [Obs.] Spenser.
concrimination: A joint accusation.
concubinacy: The practice of concubinage. [Obs.] Strype.
concubinage: A plea, in which it is alleged that the woman suing for dowerwas not lawfully married to the man in whose lands she seeks to beendowed, but that she was his concubine.
concubinal: Of or pertaining to concubinage.
concubinarian: Concubinary.The married and concubinarian, as well as looser clergy. Milman.
concubinary: Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage.
concubinate: Concubinage. [Obs.] Johnson.
conculcate: To tread or trample under foot. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu --Con`cul*ca"tion (, n. [Obs.]
concupiscence: Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion.Concupiscence like a pestilence walketh in darkness. Horne.
concupiscent: Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious.Johnson.
concupiscential: Relating to concupiscence. [Obs.] Johnson.
concupiscentious: Concupiscent. [Obs.]
concupiscibleness: The state of being concupiscible. [Obs.]
concupy: Concupiscence.
concurrency: Concurrence.
concurrent: Meeting in one point.
concurrently: With concurrence; unitedly.
concurrentness: The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.
concurring: Agreeing. Concurring figure (Geom.), one which, being laid onanother, exactly meets every part of it, or one which correspondendswith another in all its parts.
concuss: To force (a person) to do something, or give up something, byintimidation; to coerce. Wharton.
concussation: A violent shock or agitation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
concussion: A condition of lowered functional activity, without visiblestructural change, produced in an organ by a shock, as by fall orblow; as, a concussion of the brain.
concussive: Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating. Johnson.
cond: To con, as a ship.
condemn: To doom to be taken for public use, under the right of eminentdomain.
condemnable: Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable.
condemnatory: Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as,a condemnatory sentence or decree.
condemner: One who condemns or censures.
condensability: Capability of being condensed.
condensable: Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable.
condensate: Made dense; condensed.Water . . . thickened or condensate. Peacham.
condensation: The act or process of reducing, by depression of temperature orincrease of pressure, etc., to another and denser form, as gas to thecondition of a liquid or steam to water.
condensative: Having the property of condensing.
condense: To reduce into another and denser form, as by cold or pressure;as, to condense gas into a liquid form, or steam into water.Condensed milk, milk reduced to the consistence of very thick creamby evaporation (usually with addition of sugar) for preservation andtransportation.-- Condensing engine, a steam engine in which the steam is condensedafter having exerted its force on the piston.
condenser: An apparatus for receiving and condensing the volatile productsof distillation to a liquid or solid form, by cooling.
condensible: Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquidby cold.
conder: One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.
condescend: Condescension. [Obs.]
condescendingly: In a condescending manner. Atterbury.
condescension: The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank ordignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors.It forbids pride . . . and commands humility, modesty, andcondescension to others. Tillotson.Such a dignity and condescension . . . as are suitable to a superiornature. Addison.
condescent: An act of condescension. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
condignity: Merit, acguired by works, which can claim reward on the scoreof general benevolence.Such a worthiness of condignity, and proper merit of the heavenlyglory, cannot be found in any the best, most perfect, and excellentof created beings. Bp. Bull.
condignly: According to merit.
condignness: Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.
condiment: Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify thetaste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard;seasoning.As for radish and the like, they are for condiments, and not fornourishment. Bacon.
condisciple: A schoolfellow; a fellow-student. [R.]
condite: Preserved; pickled. [Obs.] Burton.
condition: A clause in a contract, or agreement, which has for its objectto suspend, to defeat, or in some way to modify, the principalobligation; or, in case of a will, to suspend, revoke, or modify adevise or bequest. It is also the case of a future uncertain event,which may or may not happen, and on the occurrence or non-occurrenceof which, the accomplishment, recission, or modification of anobligation or testamentary disposition is made to depend. Blount.Tomlins. Bouvier. Wharton. Equation of condition. (Math.) See underEquation.-- On or Upon condition (that), used for if in introducingconditional sentences. "Upon condition thou wilt swear to pay himtribute . . . thou shalt be placed as viceroy under him." Shak.-- Conditions of sale, the terms on which it is proposed to sellproperty by auction; also, the instrument containing or expressingthese terms.
conditional: Expressing a condition or supposition; as, a conditional word,mode, or tense.A conditional proposition is one which asserts the dependence of onecategorical proposition on another. Whately.The words hypothetical and conditional may be . . . usedsynonymously. J. S. Mill.
conditionality: The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation bycertain terms.
conditionally: In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions;not absolutely or positively. Shak.
conditionate: Conditional. [Obs.]Barak's answer is faithful, though conditionate. Bp. Hall.
conditionly: Conditionally. [Obs.]
conditory: A repository for holding things; a hinding place.
condog: To concur; to agree. [Burlesque]
condolatory: Expressing condolence. Smart.
condole: To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; --followed by with.Your friends would have cause to rejoice, rather than condole withyou. Sir W. Temple.
condolence: Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.Their congratulations and their condolences. Steele.A special mission of condolence. Macaulay.
condoler: One who condoles.
condonation: Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of hiswife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, asadultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not berepeated. Bouvier. Wharton.
condone: To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for aviolation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or thewife.
condor: A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphusgryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.
condottiere: A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenthcenturies, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to anyparty in any contest.
conduce: To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable ordesirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.He was sensible how much such a union would conduce to the happinessof both. Macaulay.The reasons you allege do more conduce To the hot passion ofdistemper'd blood. Shak.
conducent: Conducive; tending.Conducent to the good success of this business. Abp. Laud.
conducibility: The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness. Bp.Wilkins.
conducible: Conducive; tending; contributing. Bacon.All his laws are in themselves conducible to the temporal interest ofthem that observe them. Bentley.
conducibleness: Quality of being conducible.
conducibly: In a manner to promote. [R.]
conducive: Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.However conducive to the good or our country. Addison.
conduciveness: The quality of conducing.
conduct: To serve as a medium for conveying; to transmit, as heat,light, electricity, etc.
conductance: Conducting power; -- the reciprocal of resistance. A suggestedunit is the mho, the reciprocal of the ohm.
conductible: Capable of being conducted.
conduction: Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also,conductivity.[The] communication [of heat] from one body to another when they arein contact, or through a homogenous body from particle to particle,constitutes conduction. Amer. Cyc.
conductive: Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductivetissue of a pistil.The ovarian walls . . . are seen to be distinctly conductive. Goodale(Gray's Bot. ).
conductivity: The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving andtransmitting, as, the conductivity of a nerve. Thermal conductivity(Physics), the quantity of heat that passes in unit time through unitarea of plate whose thickness is unity, when its opposite facesdiffer in temperature by one degree. J. D. Everett.-- Thermometic conductivity (Physics), the thermal conductivity whenthe unit of heat employed is the heat required to raise unit volumeof the substance one degree.
conductor: The leader or director of an orchestra or chorus.
conductory: Having the property of conducting. [R.]
conductress: A woman who leads or directs; a directress.
conduit: A system of electric traction, esp. for light railways, inwhich the actuating current passes along a wire or rail laid in anunderground conduit, from which the current is "picked up" by a plowor other device fixed to the car or electric locomotive.  HenceConduit railway.
conduplicate: Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face beingwithin; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or æstivation.
conduplication: A doubling together or folding; a duplication. [R.]
condurango: See Cundurango.
condurrite: A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, fromthe Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.
condylar: Of or pertaining to a condyle. Condylar foramen (Anat.), aformen in front of each condyle of the occipital bone; -- sometimescalled the anterior condylar foramen when a second, or posterior,foramen is present behind the condyle, as often happens in man.
condyle: A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of abone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied alsoto a concave articular surface.
condyloid: Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.
condylopod: An arthropod.
cone: A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right-angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; -- called also a right cone. More generally, any solid having avertical point and bounded by a surface which is described by astraight line always passing through that vertical point; a solidhaving a circle for its base and tapering to a point or vertex.
cone clutch: A friction clutch with conical bearing surfaces.
cone pulley: A pulley for driving machines, etc., having two or more partsor steps of different diameters; a pulley having a conical shape.
cone-in-cone: Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of manyconcentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind ofstructure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.
cone-nose: A large hemipterous insect of the family Reduviidæ, often foundin houses, esp. in the southern and western United States. It bitesseverely, and is one of the species called kissing bugs. It is alsocalled big bedbug.
coneflower: Any plant of the genus Rudbeckia; -- so called from the cone-shaped disk of the flower head. Also, any plant of the related generaRatibida and Brauneria, the latter usually known as purpleconeflower.
coneine: See Conine.
coney: A rabbit. See Cony.
confab: Familiar talk or conversation. [Colloq.]
confabulate: To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.I shall not ask Jean Jaques Rousseau If birds confabulate or no.Cowper.
confabulation: Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.Friends' confabulations are comfortable at all times, as fire inwinter. Burton.
confabulatory: Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.Weever.
confalon: One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.
confarreation: A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering ofbread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least tenwitnesses.
confated: Fated or decreed with something else. [R.] A. Tucker.
confect: A comfit; a confection. [Obs.]At supper eat a pippin roasted and sweetened with sugar of roses andcaraway confects. Harvey.
confection: A soft solid made by incorporating a medicinal substance orsubstances with sugar, sirup, or honey.
confectionary: A confectioner. [Obs.]He will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks. 1Sam. viii. 13.
confectioner: A highly refined sugar in impalpable powder, esp. suited toconfectioners' uses.
confectory: Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats. [Obs.] Beaumont.
confecture: Same as Confiture. [Obs.]
confeder: To confederate. [Obs.] Sir T. North.
confederacy: A combination of two or more persons to commit an unlawful act,or to do a lawful act by unlawful means. See Conspiracy.
confederate: Of or pertaining to the government of the eleven SouthernStates of the United States which (1860-1865) attempted to establishan independent nation styled the Confederate States of America; as,the Confederate congress; Confederate money.
confederater: A confederate.
confederative: Of or pertaining to a confederation.
confederator: A confederate. Grafton.
confer: To have discourse; to consult; to compare views; to deliberate.Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered. Acts xxv.12.You shall hear us confer of this. Shak.
conference: A stated meeting of preachers and others, invested withauthority to take cognizance of ecclesiastical matters.
conferential: Relating to conference. [R.] Clarke.
conferrable: Capable of being conferred.
conferree: Same as Conferee.
conferrer: Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, ofcontiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oakacorn.
conferva: Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae.The word is frequently used in a wider sense.
confervaceous: Belonging to the confervae.
confervoid: Like, or related to, the confervae. Loudon.
confervous: Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, theconfervae.Yon exiguous pool's confervous scum. O. W. Holmes.
confessant: One who confesses to a priest. [Obs.] Bacon.
confessary: One who makes a confession. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
confessedly: By confession; without denial. [Written also confessly.]
confesser: One who makes a confession.
confession: The act of disclosing sins or faults to a priest in order toobtain sacramental absolution.Auricular confession . . . or the private and special confession ofsins to a priest for the purpose of obtaining his absolution. Hallam.
confessional: The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits tohear confessions; often a small structure furnished with a seat forthe priest and with a window or aperture so that the penitent who isoutside may whisper into the priest's ear without being seen by himor heard by others.
confessionalism: An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assentto any particular formula of the Christian faith. Shaff.
confessionalist: A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession. [R.] Boucher
confessionary: A confessional. [Obs.] Johnson.
confessionist: One professing a certain faith. Bp. Montagu.
confessorship: The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.Our duty to contend even to confessorship. J. H. Newman.
confestly: See Cofessedly.
confetti: Bonbons; sweetmeats; confections; also, plaster or paperimitations of, or substitutes for, bonbons, often used by carnivalrevelers, at weddings, etc.
confide: To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usuallyfollowed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.By thy command I rise or fall, In thy protection I confide. Byron.Judge before friendships, then confide till death. Young.
confident: See Confidant. South. Dryden.
confidentially: In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.
confidently: With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.
confidentness: The quality of being confident.
confider: One who confides.
confiding: That confides; trustful; unsuspicious.-- Con*fid"ing*ly, adv.-- Con*fid"ing*ness, n.
configurate: To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure;to agree with a pattern.Known by the name of uniformity; Where pyramids to pyramids relateAnd the whole fabric doth configurate. Jordan.
configuration: Relative position or aspect of the planets; the face of thehoroscope, according to the relative positions of the planets at anytime.They [astrologers] undertook . . . to determine the course of a man'scharacter and life from the configuration of the stars at the momentof his birth. Whewell.
configure: To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.Bentley.
confinable: Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.Not confinable to any limits. Bp. Hall.
confine: To restrain within limits; to restrict; to limit; to bound; toshut up; to inclose; to keep close.Now let not nature's hand Keep the wild flood confined! let orderdie! Shak.He is to confine himself to the compass of numbers and the slavery ofrhyme. Dryden.To be confined, to be in childbed.
confineless: Without limitation or end; boundless. Shak.
confiner: One who, or that which, limits or restrains.
confinity: Community of limits; contiguity. [R.] Bailey.
confirm: To administer the rite of confirmation to. See Confirmation, 3.Those which are thus confirmed are thereby supposed to be fit foradmission to the sacrament. Hammond.
confirmable: That may be confirmed.
confirmance: Confirmation. [Obs.]
confirmation: A rite supplemental to baptism, by which a person is admitted,through the laying on of the hands of a bishop, to the fullprivileges of the church, as in the Roman Catholic, the EpiscopalChurch, etc.This ordinance is called confirmation, because they who duly receiveit are confirmed or strengthened for the fulfillment of theirChristian duties, by the grace therein bestowed upon them. Hook.
confirmative: Tending confirm or establish. Sherwood.-- Con*firm"a*tive*ly, adv.
confirmator: One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer. Sir T. Browne.
confirmatory: Serving to confirm; corroborative.A fact confirmatory of the conclusion. I. Taylor.
confirmedly: With confirmation.
confirmedness: A fixed state.
confirmee: One to whom anuthing is confirmed.
confirmer: One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; onewho corroborates. Shak.
confirmingly: In a confirming manner.
confiscable: Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.
confiscate: Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use;forfeited.Lest that your goods too soon be confiscate. Shak.
confiscation: The act or process of taking property or condemning it to betaken, as forfeited to the public use.The confiscations following a subdued rebellion. Hallam.
confiscator: One who confiscates. Burke.
confiscatory: Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations."Confiscatory and exterminatory periods." Burke.
confit: Same as Comfit. [Obs.]
confitent: One who confesses his sins and faults. [Obs.]
confiteor: A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.
confiture: The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;adaptation; suitableness. Sir J. Reynolds.If congeniality of tastes could have made a marriage happy, thatunion should have been thrice blessed. Motley.
confix: To fix; to fasten. [Obs.]  Shak.
confixure: Act of fastening. [Obs.]
conflagrant: Burning together in a common flame. [R.] "The conflagrantmass."  Milton.
conflagration: A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; ageneral burning.
conflate: To blow together; to bring together; to collect;  to fusetogether; to join or weld; to consolidate.
conflation: A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or ofmany fires in a foundry. [R.]  Bacon.
conflicting: Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending;contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.
conflictive: Tending to conflict; conflicting.  Sir W. Hamilton.
confluxibility: The  tendency of fluids to run together. [R.] Boyle.
confluxible: Inclined to flow or run together. --Con*flux"i*ble*ness, n.
confocal: Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.
conform: Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.  Bacon.
conformableness: The quality of being conformable; conformability.
conformably: With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.
conformance: Conformity. [R.]  Marston.
conformate: Having the same form. [R.]
conformator: An apparatus for taking the conformation of anything, as of thehead for fitting a hat, or, in craniometry, finding the largesthorizontal area of the head.
conformer: One who conforms; one who complies with established forms ordoctrines.
conformist: One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to theChurch of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguishedfrom a dissenter or nonconformist.
confortation: The act of strengthening. [Obs.]  Bacon.
confoundedly: Extremely; odiously; detestably. [Colloq.] "Confoundedly sick."Goldsmith.
confoundedness: The state of being confounded.
confounder: One who confounds.
confract: Broken in pieces; severed. [Obs.]
confragose: Broken; uneven. [Obs.] "Confragose cataracts."  Evelyn.
confraternity: A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in someprofession; a brotherhood.
confrere: Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.
confrication: A rubbing together; friction. [Obs.] Bacon.
confrier: A confrère. [Obs.]  Weever.
confrontation: Act of confronting.  H. Swinburne.
confronte: Same as Affronté.
confronter: One who confronts.
confronting: dealing with (a person or problem) directly; taking the bull bythe horns.Syn. -- braving, coping with, grappling, tackling.[WordNet 1.5 +PJC]
confrontment: The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.
confucian: Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopherand teacher. -- n.
confucianism: The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples,which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education. Itcan hardly be called a religion, as it does not inculcate the worshipof any god.  S. W. Williams.
confucianist: A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.  S. W. Williams.
confus: Confused, disturbed. [Obs.]  Chaucer.
confusability: Capability of being confused.
confusable: Capable of being confused.
confuse: Mixed; confounded. [Obs.] Baret.
confusedly: In a confused manner.
confusedness: A state of confusion.  Norris.
confusely: Confusedly; obscurely. [Obs.]
confusive: Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.  Bp. Hall.
confutable: That may be confuted.
confutant: One who undertakes to confute.  Milton.
confutation: The act or process of confuting; refutation.  "For theedification of some and the confutation of others."  Bp. Horne.
confutative: Adapted or designed to confute.  Bp. Warburton
confute: To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove orshow to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.
confutement: Confutation. [Obs.]  Milton.
confuter: One who confutes or disproves.
cong: An abbreviation of Congius.
conge: To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow orcourtesy.
congeable: Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.
congeal: To grow hard, stiff, or thick, from cold or other causes; tobecome solid; to freeze; to cease to flow; to run cold; to bechilled.
congealable: Capable of being congealed. --Con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.
congealedness: The state of being congealed.  Dr. H.More.
congee: See Congé, Conge. [Obs.]
congener: A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied innature, character, or action.
congeneracy: Similarity of origin; affinity. [Obs.]  Dr. H. More.
congenerous: Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerousdiseases. [Obs.]  Sir T. Browne.
congeniality: The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity;adaptation; suitableness.  Sir J. Reynolds.
congenialize: To make congenial. [R.]
congenially: In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.
congenialness: Congeniality.
congenious: Congeneric. [Obs.]
congenital: Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one frombirth; born with one; connate; constitutinal; natural; as, acongenital deformity. See Connate.
congenitally: In a congenital manner.
congenite: Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital. [Obs.]Many conclusions, of moral and intellectual truths, seem . . . to becongenite with us. Sir M. Hale.
conger: The conger eel; -- called also congeree. Conger sea (Zoöl.),the sea eel; a large species of eel (Conger vulgaris), whichsometimes grows to the length of ten feet.
congeries: A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; anaggregation.
congest: To cause an overfullness of the blood vessels (esp. thecapillaries) of an organ or part.
congested: Crowded together. Gray.
congestion: Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., inany locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); localhyperas, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of thelungs.
congestive: Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in somepart of the body; as, a congestive fever.
congiary: A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor tothe soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each ina congius. Addison.
congius: A liquid measure containing about three quarts.
conglaciate: To turn to ice; to freeze. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
conglaciation: The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of beingconverted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost. Bacon.
conglobate: Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, theconglobate [lymphatic] glands; conglobate flowers.
conglobe: To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.Then founded, then conglobed Like things to like. Milton.
conglobulate: To gather into a small round mass.
conglomerate: Closely crowded together; densly clustered; as, conglomerateflowers. Gray.
conglomeration: The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of beingthus collected; collection; accumulation; that which isconglomerated; a mixed mass. Bacon.
conglutin: A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found inalmonds, rye, wheat, etc.
conglutinant: Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere;promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of theparts.
conglutinate: Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.
conglutination: A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacioussubstance; junction; union.Conglutination of parts separated by a wound. Arbuthnot.
conglutinative: Conglutinant.
congo group: A group of artificial dyes with an affinity for vegetablefibers, so that no mordant is required. Most of them are azocompounds derived from benzidine or tolidine. Called also benzidinedyes.
congo red: An artificial red dye from which the Congo group received itsname. It is also widely used either in aqueous solution or as testpaper (Congo paper) for the detection of free acid, which turns itblue.
congo snake: An amphibian (Amphiuma means) of the order Urodela, found inthe southern United States. See Amphiuma.
congratulant: Rejoicing together; congratulatory.With like joy Congratulant approached him. Milton.
congratulate: To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on accountof some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.It is the king's most sweet pleasure and affection to congratulatethe princess at her pavilion. Shak.To congratulate one's self, to rejoice; to feel satisfaction; toconsider one's self happy or fortunate.
congratulation: The act of congratulating; an expression of sympatheticpleasure.With infinite congratulations for our safe arrival. Dr. J. Scott.
congratulator: One who offers congratulation. Milton.
congratulatory: Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.
congree: To agree. [bs.] Shak.
congreet: To salute mutually. [Obs.]
congregate: Collected; compact; close. [R.] Bacon.
congregation: The whole body of the Jewish people; -- called alsoCongregation of the Lord.It is a sin offering for the congregation. Lev. iv. 21.
congregationalist: One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one whoholds to Congregationalism.
congression: A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in adispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse. [R.] Jer.Taylor.
congressional: Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress ofthe United States; as, congressional debates.Congressional and official labor. E. Everett.Congressional District, one of the divisions into which a State isperiodically divided (according to population), each of which isentitled to elect a Representative to the Congress of the UnitedStates.
congressive: Encountering, or coming together. Sir T. Browne.
congressman: A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of theHouse of Representatives.
congreve rocket: See under Rocket.
congrue: To agree; to be suitable. [Obs.] Shak.
congruence: Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.Holland.
congruency: Congruence. Congruency of lines. (Geom.) See Complex of lines,under Complex, n.
congruent: Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.The congruent and harmonious fitting of parts in a sentence. B.Jonson.Congruent figures (Geom.), concurring figures.
congruism: See Congruity.
congruity: Coincidence, as that of lines or figures laid over one another.
congruous: Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious;correspondent; consistent.Not congruous to the nature of epic poetry. Blair.It is no ways congruous that God should be always frightening meninto an acknowledgment of the truth. Atterbury.
congruously: In a congruous manner.
conhydrine: A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock(Conium maculatum). It is a white crystalline substance, C8H17NO,easily convertible into conine.
conia: Same as Conine.
conic: A conic section.
conicality: Conicalness.
conically: In the form of a cone.
conicalness: State or quality of being conical.
conico-: A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as,conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico-hemispherical; conico-subulate.
conicoid: Same as Conoidal.
conidium: A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi,and often containing zoöspores.
conifer: A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae,which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.
coniferin: A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferoustrees as a white crystalline substance.
coniform: Cone-shaped; conical.
coniine: See Conine.
conimene: Same as Olibene.
conine: A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in thehemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N,of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste. It is regarded as aderivative of piperidine and likewise of one of the collidines. Itoccasions a gradual paralysis of the motor nerves. Called alsoconiine, coneine, conia, etc. See Conium, 2.
coniroster: One of the Conirostres.
conirostral: Belonging to the Conirostres.
conirostres: A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strongconical bill, as the finches.
conisor: See Cognizor.
conistra: Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among theGreeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinklingthe wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself. Hence, a part of theorchestra of the Greek theater.
conite: A magnesian variety of dolomite.
conium: A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferousplants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.
conject: To throw together, or to throw. [Obs.] Bp. Montagu.
conjector: One who guesses or conjectures. [Obs.]A great conjector at other men by their writings. Milton.
conjecturable: Capable of being conjectured or guessed.
conjectural: Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at;undetermined; doubtful.And mak'st conjectural fears to come into me. Shak.A slight expense of conjectural analogy. Hugh Miller.Who or what such editor may be, must remain conjectural. Carlyle.
conjecturalist: A conjecturer. [R.] Month. rev.
conjecturally: That which depends upon guess; guesswork. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
conjecture: An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptiveevidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.He [Herodotus] would thus have corrected his first loose conjectureby a real study of nature. Whewell.Conjectures, fancies, built on nothing firm. Milton.
conjecturer: One who conjectures. Hobbes.
conjoin: To join together; to unite.The English army, that divided was Into two parties, is now conjoinedin one. Shak.If either of you know any inward impediment why you should not beconjoined. Shak.Let that which he learns next be nearly conjoined with what he knowsalready. Locke.
conjoined: Joined together or touching.
conjoint: United; connected; associated. "Influence conjoint." Glover.Conjoint degrees (Mus.), two notes which follow each otherimmediately in the order of the scale, as ut and re. Johnson.Conjoint tetrachords (Mus.), two tetrachords or fourths, where thesame note is the highest of one and the lowest of the other; -- alsowritten conjunct.
conjointly: In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together. Sir T.Browne.
conjointness: The qquality of being conjoint.
conjubilant: Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together. [R.] Neale.
conjugal: Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriagestate or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial. "Conjugalaffection." Milton.
conjugality: The conjugal state; sexual intercourse. [R.] Milton.
conjugally: In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.
conjugate: In single pairs; coupled.
conjugation: A kind of sexual union; -- applied to a blending of thecontents of two or more cells or individuals in some plants and loweranimals, by which new spores or germs are developed.
conjugational: relating to conjugation. Ellis.
conjugial: Conjugal. [R.] Swedenborg.
conjugium: The marriage tie.
conjunct: Same as Conjoined.
conjunction: The meeting of two or more stars or planets in the same degreeof the zodiac; as, the conjunction of the moon with the sun, or ofJupiter and Saturn. See the Note under Aspect, n., 6.
conjunctional: Relating to a conjunction.
conjunctiva: The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of theball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctivalmembrance.
conjunctival: Of or pertaining to the conjunctiva.
conjunctively: In conjunction or union; together. Sir T. Browne.
conjunctiveness: The state or quality of being conjunctive. Johnson.
conjunctivitis: Inflammation of the conjunctiva.
conjunctly: In union; conjointly; unitedly; together. Sir W. Hamilton.
conjurator: One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath withothers; a compurgator. Burrill.
conjure: To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; toimplore earnestly; to adjure.I conjure you, let him know, Whate'er was done against him, Cato didit. Addison.
conjurement: Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty. [Obs.] Milton.
conjurer: One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in asolemn manner.
conjuror: One bound by a common cath with others. [Obs.]
conjury: The practice of magic; enchantment. Motley.
conn: See Con, to direct a ship.
connascent: Born together; produced at the same time. Craig.
connate: Congenitally united; growing from one base, or united at theirbases; united into one body; as, connate leaves or athers. SeeIllust. of Connate-perfoliate.
connate-perfoliate: Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broadfoliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; --applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.
connation: Connection by birth; natural union. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
connaturality: Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.[R.]A congruity and connaturality between them. Sir M. Hale.
connaturalize: To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt. [Obs.]Dr. J. Scott.
connaturally: By the act of nature; originally; from birth. Sir M. Hale.
connaturalness: Participation of the same nature; natural union. I. Walton.
connature: Participation in a common nature or character. [R.]Connature was defined as likeness in kind between either two changesin consciousness, or two states of consciousness. H. Spencer.
connect: To join, unite, or cohere; to have a close relation; as, oneline of railroad connects with another; one argument connect withanother.
connectedly: In a connected manner.
connective: Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.Connection tissue (Anat.) See Conjunctive tissue, under Conjunctive.
connectively: In connjunction; jointly.
connector: One who, or that which, connects; as:(a) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes inpneumatic experiments.(b) A device for holding two parts of an electrical conductor incontact.
conner: A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the relatedAmerican cunner. See Cunner.
connex: To connect. Sir M. Hale.
connexion: Connection. See Connection.
connexive: See Connective.
conning tower: The shotproof pilot house of a war vessel.
connivance: Corrupt or guilty assent to wrongdoing, not involving actualparticipation in, but knowledge of, and failure to prevent or opposeit.
connive: To shut the eyes to; to overlook; to pretend not to see. [R. &Obs.] "Divorces were not connived only, but with eye open allowed."Milton.
connivency: Connivance. [Obs.]
connivent: Brought close together; arched inward so that the points meet;converging; in close contact; as, the connivent petals of a flower,wings of an insect, or folds of membrane in the human system, etc.
conniver: One who connives.
connoisseur: One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; acritical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.The connoisseur is "one who knows," as opposed to the dilettant, whoonly "thinks he knows." Fairholt.
connoisseurship: State of being a connoisseur.
connotate: To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional;to include; to imply. Hammond.
connotation: The act of connoting; a making known or designating somethingadditional; implication of something more than is asserted.
connotative: Implying an attribute. See Connote. Connotative term, one whichdenotes a subject and implies an attribute. J. S. Mill.
connotatively: In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.
connote: To imply as an attribute.The word "white" denotes all white things, as snow, paper, the foamof the sea, etc., and ipmlies, or as it was termed by the schoolmen,connotes, the attribute "whiteness." J. S. Mill.
connubial: Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal;nuptial.Nor Eve the rites Mysterious of connubial love refused. Milton.Kind, connubial tenderness. Goldsmith.
connubiality: The quality of being connubial; something characteristics ofthe conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.Some connubialities which had begun to pass between Mr. and Mrs. B.Dickens.
connumeration: A reckoning together. [R.] Porson.
connusance: See Cognizance. [Obs.]
connusant: See Cognizant. [Obs.]
connusor: See Cognizor. [Obs.]
connutritious: Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.[Obs.] Crabb.
conny: Brave; fine; canny. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
conodont: A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially incarboniferous rocks. Such fossils are supposed by some to be theteeth of marsipobranch fishes, but they are probably the jaws ofannelids.
conoid: , Resembling a cone; conoidal.
conoidal: Nearly, but not exactly, conical. Lindley.
conominee: One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.Kirby.
conquadrate: To bring into a square. [R.] Ash.
conquassate: To shake; to agitate. [Obs.] Harvey.-- Con`quas*sa"tion, n. [Obs.]
conquer: To gain the victory; to overcome; to prevail.He went forth conquering and to conquer. Rev. vi. 2.The champions resolved to conquer or to die. Waller.
conquerable: Capable of being conquered or subdued. South.-- Con"quer*a*ble*ness, n.
conqueress: A woman who conquers. Fairfax.
conqueror: One who conquers. The Conqueror (Eng. Hist.). William theNorman (1027-1067) who invaded England, defeated Harold in the battleof Hastings, and was crowned king, in 1066.
conquest: The acquiring of property by other means than by inheritance;acquisition. Blackstone.
conquian: A game for two, played with 40 cards, in which each playertries to form three or four of a kind or sequences.
consanguineal: Of the same blood; related by birth. Sir T. Browne.
consanguined: Of kin blood; related. [R.] Johnson.
consanguineous: Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the sameparent or ancestor. Shak.
consanguinity: The relation of person by blood, is distinction from affinityor relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, linealconsanguinity; collateral consanguinity.Invoking aid by the ties of consanguinity. Prescott.
consarcination: A patching together; patchwork. [Obs.] Bailey.
conscienced: Having a conscience. [R.] "Soft-conscienced men." Shak.
conscienceless: Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.Conscienceless and wicked patrons. Hookre.
conscient: Conscious. [R.] Bacon.
conscientiously: In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence;faithfully; accurately; completely.
conscientiousness: The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to thedictates of conscience.
conscionable: Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.Let my debtors have conscionable satisfaction. Sir H. Wotton.
conscionableness: The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness. Johnson.
conscionably: Reasonably; justly.
consciously: In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mentaloperations or actions.
conscribe: To enroll; to enlist. [Obs.] E. Hall.
conscript: Enrolled; written; registered. Conscript fathers (Rom. Antiq.),the senators of ancient Rome. When certain new senators were firstenrolled with the "fathers" the body was called Patres et Conscripti;afterward all were called Patres conscripti.
conscription: Belonging to, or of the nature of, a conspiration.
consecrate: Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.They were assembled in that consecrate place. Bacon.
consecrater: Consecrator.
consecration: The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of beingconsecrated; dedication.Until the days of your consecration be at an end. Lev. viii. 33.Consecration makes not a place sacred, but only solemny declares itso. South.
consecrator: One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which aperson or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes. [Writtenalso consecrater.]
consecratory: Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.The consecratory prayer. Bp. Burnet.
consectaneous: Following as a matter of course. Blount.
consectary: Following by consequence; consequent; deducible. [R.]"Consectary impieties." Sir T. Browne.
consecute: To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.]Bp. Burnet.
consecutive: Having similarity of sequence; -- said of certain parallelprogressions of two parts in a piece of harmony; as, consecutivefifths, or consecutive octaves, which are forbidden. Consecutivechords (Mus.), chords of the same kind suceeding one another withoutinterruption.
consecutively: In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.
consecutiveness: The state or quality of being consecutive.
consension: Agreement; accord. Bentley.
consensual: Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or moreparties.
consensus: Agreement; accord; consent.That traditional consensus of society which we call public opinion.Tylor.
consent: To grant; to allow; to assent to; to admit. [Obs.]Interpreters . . . will not consent it to be a true story. Milton.
consentaneity: Mutual agreement. [R.]
consentaneous: Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious;concurrent.A good law and consentaneous to reason. Howell.-- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Con`sen*ta"ne*ous*ness, n.
consentant: Consenting. [Obs.] Chaucer.
consenter: One who consents.
consentient: Agreeing in mind; accordant.The consentient judgment of the church. Bp. Pearson.
consentingly: With consent; in a compliant manner. Jer. Taylor.
consequence: A proposition collected from the agreement of other previouspropositions; any conclusion which results from reason or argument;inference.
consequencing: Drawing inference. [R.] Milton.
consequent: Following by necessary inference or rational deduction; as, aproposition consequent to other propositions. Consequent points,Consequent poles (Magnetism), a number of poles distributed undercertain conditions, along the axis of a magnetized steel bar, whichregularly has but the two poles at the extremities.
consequentialness: The quality of being consequential.
consequently: By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.
consertion: Junction; adaptation [R.]Consertion of design, how exquisite. Young.
conservable: Capable of being preserved from decay or injury.
conservancy: Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use.[An act was] passed in 1866, for vesting in the Conservators of theRiver Thames the conservancy of the Thames and Isis. Mozley & W.
conservant: Having the power or quality of conservation.
conservation: The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (ofa thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation.A step necessary for the conservation of Protestantism. Hallam.A state without the means of some change is without the means of itsconservation. Burke.Conservation of areas (Astron.), the principle that the radius vectordrawn from a planet to the sun sweeps over equal areas in equaltimes.-- Conservation of energy, or Conservation of force (Mech.), theprinciple that the total energy of any material system is a quantitywhich can neither be increased nor diminished by any action betweenthe parts of the system, though it may be transformed into any of theforms of which energy is susceptible. Clerk Maxwell.
conservational: Tending to conserve; preservative.
conservatism: The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established;opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of aconservative.
conservative: A member of the Conservative party.
conservativeness: The quality of being conservative.
conservatoire: A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. musicand the arts. [See Conservatory, 3].
conservatory: Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury.
conservatrix: A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc.
conserve: A medicinal confection made of freshly gathered vegetablesubstances mixed with finely powdered refined sugar. See Confection.
conserver: One who conserves.
considerableness: Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount.
considerably: In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant;greatly; much.The breeds . . . differ considerably from each other. Darwin.
considerance: Act of considering; consideration. [Obs.] Shak.
consideration: The cause which moves a contracting party to enter into anagreement; the material cause of a contract; the price of astripulation; compensation; equivalent. Bouvier.
considerative: Considerate; careful; thoughtful. [Archaic]I love to be considerative. B. Jonson.
considerator: One who considers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
considerer: One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker. Milton.
consideringly: With consideration or deliberation.
consign: To send or address (by bill of lading or otherwise) to an agentor correspondent in another place, to be cared for or sold, or forthe use of such correspondent; as, to cosign a cargo or a ship; toset apart.
consignatary: A consignee. [Obs.] Jenkins.
consignatory: One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as atreaty. Fallows.
consignature: Joint signature. [R.] Colgrave.
consignee: The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; afactor; -- correlative to consignor.Consigner and consignee are used by merchants to express generallythe shipper of merchandise, and the person to whom it is addressed,by bill of lading or otherwise. De Colange.
consigner: One who consigns. See Consignor.
consignificant: Having joint or equal signification; synonymous. [R.] Spelman.
consignification: Joint signification. [R.]
consignificative: Consignificant; jointly significate. [R.]
consignify: To signify or denote in combination with something else.The cipher . . . only serves to connote and consignify, and to changethe value or the figures. Horne Tooke.
consignment: The act of consigning or sending property to an agent orcorrespondent in another place, as for care, sale, etc.
consignor: One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.[Written also consigner.]
consilience: Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence.The consilience of inductions takes place when one class of factscoincides with an induction obtained from another different class.Whewell.
consistently: In a consistent manner.
consistorial: Of or pertaining to a consistory. "Consistorial laws." Hooker."Consistorial courts." Bp. Hoadley.
consistorian: Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous termof 17th century controversy.You fall next on the consistorian schismatics; for so you callPresbyterians. Milton.
consistory: The spiritual court of a diocesan bishop held before hischancellor or commissioner in his cathedral church or elsewhere.Hook.
consociate: An associate; an accomplice. [Archaic] "Wicked consociates."Bp. Hall.
consociational: Of or pertaining to a consociation. [U.S.]
consol: A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combinationor attributively.
consolable: Capable of receiving consolation.
consolate: To console; to comfort. [Obs.] Shak.
consolation: The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevationof misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; thatwhich consoles or comforts the spirit.Against such cruelties With inward consolations recompensed. Milton.Are the consolations of God small with thee Job xv. 11.
consolato del mare: A collection of maritime laws of disputed origin, supposed tohave been first published at Barcelona early in the 14th century. Ithas formed the basis of most of the subsequent collections ofmaritime laws. Kent. Bouvier.
consolator: One who consoles or comforts. Johnson.
consolatory: Of a consoling or comforting nature.The punishment of tyrants is a noble and awful act of justice; and ithas with truth been said to be consolatory to the human mind. Burke.
console: To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief andraise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe.And empty heads console with empty sound. Pope.I am much consoled by the reflection that the religion of Christ hasbeen attacked in vain by all the wits and philosophers, and itstriumph has been complete. P. Henry.
consoler: One who gives consolation.
consolidant: Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality ofconsolidating or making firm.
consolidate: Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated. [R.]A gentleman [should learn to ride] while he is tender and the brawnsand sinews of his thighs not fully consolidate. Elyot.
consolidated: Having a small surface in proportion to bulk, as in the cactus.Consolidated plants are evidently adapted and designed for very dryregions; in such only they are found. Gray.The Consolidated Fund, a British fund formed by consolidating (in1787) three public funds (the Aggregate Fund, the General Fund, andthe South Sea Fund). In 1816, the larger part of the revenues ofGreat Britian and Ireland was assigned to what has been known as theConsolidated Fund of the United Kingdom, out of which are paid theinterest of the national debt, the salaries of the civil list, etc.
consolidation: To organic cohesion of different circled in a flower; adnation.
consolidative: Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.
consoling: Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consolingnews.
consols: The leading British funded government security.
consomme: A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.
consonant: harmonizing together; accordant; as, consonant tones, consonantchords.
consonantal: ,
consonantize: To change into, or use as, a consonant. "The vowel isconsonantized, that is, made closer in position." Peile.
consonantly: In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably.
consonantness: The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, orconsistent.
consonous: Agreeing in sound; symphonious.
consopiation: The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep. [Obs.] Pope.
consopite: Lulled to sleep. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
consort: A ship keeping company with another.
consortable: Suitable for association or companionship. [Obs.] Sir H.Wotton.
consortion: Fellowship; association; companionship. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
consortship: The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership. Hammond.
consound: A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera,esp. the comfrey.
conspecific: Of the same species.
conspectuity: The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.
conspectus: A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; anepitome.
conspersion: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.]The conspersion washing the doorposts. Jer. Taylor.
conspicuity: The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness;conspicuosness. [R.] Chapman.
conspiracy: An agreement, manifesting itself in words or deeds, by whichtwo or more persons confederate to do an unlawful act, or to useunlawful to do an act which is lawful; confederacy.
conspirant: Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring. [Obs.] Shak.
conspiration: Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy.[R.]As soon as it was day, certain Jews made a conspiration. Udall.In our natural body every part has a nacassary sympathy with everyother, and all together form, by their harmonious onspiration, ahealthy whole. Sir W. Hamilton.
conspirator: One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter. 2 Sam. xv. 31.
conspire: To plot; to plan; to combine for.Angry clouds conspire your overthrow. Bp. Hall.
conspirer: One who conspires; a conspirator.
conspiringly: In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy. Milton.
conspissation: A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation. [R.] Dr. H.More.
conspurcate: To pollute; to defile. [Obs.] Cockeram.
conspurcation: This act of defiling; defilement; pollution. Bp. Hall.
constable: An officer of the peace having power as a conservator of thepublic peace, and bound to exeute the warrants of judicial offiers.Bouvier.
constableship: The office or functions of a constable.
constabless: The wife of a constable. [Obs.]
constablewick: The district to which a constable's power is limited. [Obs.]Sir M. Hale.
constabulary: Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables.
constabulatory: A constabulary. [Obs.] Bp. Burnet.
constant: Remaining unchanged or invariable, as a quantity, forc, law,etc.
constantia: A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in CapeColony.
constantly: With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; withoutcessation; uniformly.But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Acts. xii. 15.
constat: A certificate showing what appears upon record touching amatter in question.
constate: To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove. F. P. Cobbe.
constellate: To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one generallight. [R.]The several things which engage our affections . . . shine forth andconstellate in God. Boule.
consternation: Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, andincapacitates for refletion; terror, combined with amaxement; dismay.The chiefs around, In silence wrapped, in onsternation downed. Attendthe stern reply. Pope.
constipate: To render costive; to cause constipation in.
constituency: A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in arepresentative district.
constituent: A person who appoints another to act for him as attorney infact. Burrill.
constitute: An established law. [Obs.] T. Preston.
constituter: One who constitutes or appoints.
constitutional: A walk or other exercise taken for one's health orconstitution. [Colloq.] Thackeray.The men trudged diurnal constitutionals along the different roads.Compton Reade.
constitutionalism: The theory, principles, or authority of constitutionalgovernment; attachment or adherene to a constitution orconstitutional government. Carlyle.
constitutionalist: One who advocates a constitutional form of government; aconstitutionalist.
constitutionist: One who adheres to the constitution of the country.Bolingbroke.
constitutively: In a constitutive manner.
constrainable: Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or torestraint. Hooker.
constrained: Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as,a constrained manner; a constrained tone.
constrainedly: By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner. Hooker.
constrainer: One who constrains.
constraint: The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained;that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion;restraint; necessity.Long imprisonment and hard constraint. Spenser.Not by constraint, but bDryden.
constraintive: Constraining; compulsory. [R.] "Any constraintive vow." R.Carew.
constrict: To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; tocramp; to contract or ause to shrink.Such things as constrict the fibers. Arbuthnot.Membranous organs inclosing a cavity which their contractionconstrict. Todd & Bowman.
constricted: Contracted or compressed so as to be smaller in certain placesor parts than in others.
constrictive: Serving or tending to bind or constrict.
constrictor: A muscle which contracts or closes an orifice, or whichcompresses an organ; a sphincter.
constringe: To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; toconstrict; to cause to shrink. [R.]Strong liquors . . . intoxicate, constringe, harden the fibers, andcoagulate the fluids. Arbuthnot.
constringent: Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing.Thomson.
construct: Formed by, or relating to, construction, interpretation, orinference. Construct form or state (Heb. Gram.), that of a noun usedbefore another which has the genitive relation to it.
constructer: One who, or that which, constructs or frames.
construction: The arrangement and connection of words in a sentence;syntactical arrangement.Some particles . . . in certain constructions have the sense of awhole sentence contained in them. Locke.
constructional: Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation.
constructionist: One who puts a certain construction upon some writing orinstrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strictconstructionist; a broad constructionist.
constructively: In a constructive manner; by construction or inference.A neutral must have notice of a blockade, either actually by a formalinformation, or constructively by notice to his government. Kent.
constructiveness: The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical,artistic, or literary matters.
constructor: A constructer.
constructure: That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric.[Obs.]
constuprate: To ravish; to debauch. Burton.
constupration: The act of ravishing; violation; defilement. Bp. Hall.
consubstantial: Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance oressence; coessential.Christ Jesus . . . coeternal and consubstantial with the Father andwith the Holy Ghost. Foxe.
consubstantialism: The doctrine of consubstantiation.
consubstantialist: One who believes in consubstantiation. Barrow.
consubstantiality: Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the samesubstance. "His [the Son's] . . . consubstantiality with the Father."Hammend.
consubstantially: In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance ornature.
consubstantiate: To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one commonsubstance or nature. [R.]His soul must be consubstantiated with reason. Jer. Taylor.
consubstantiation: The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with thebread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; --opposed to transubstantiation.
consuetude: Custom, habit; usage. [R.]To observe this consuetude or law. Barnes.
consuetudinal: According to custom; customary; usual. [R.]
consuetudinary: Customary.
consul: One of the two chief magistrates of the republic.
consulage: A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of theirconnerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.
consular: Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of aconsul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers.
consulary: Consular. [Obs.] Holland.
consult: To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; todeliberate together; to confer.Let us consult upon to-morrow's business. Shak.All the laws of England have been made by the kings England,consulting with the nobility and commons. Hobbes.
consultary: Formed by consultation; resulting from conference. Consultaryresponse (Law), the opinion of a court on a special case. Wharton.
consultative: Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right ofconference. "A consultative . . . power." Abp. Bramhall.
consultatory: Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory. Bancroft.
consulter: One who consults, or asks counsel or information.
consulting: That consults. Consulting physician (Med.), a physician whoconsults with the attending practitioner regarding any case ofdisease.
consultive: Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate;consultative.He that remains in the grace of God sins not by any deliberative,consultive, knowing act. Jer. Taylor.
consumable: Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated,wasted, or spent. "Consumable commodities." Locke.
consume: To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire;to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour.If he were putting to my house the brand That shall consume it. Shak.Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth norrust doth consume. Matt. vi. 20 (Rev. Ver. ).Let me alone . . . that I may consume them. Ex. xxxii. 10.
consumedly: Excessively. [Low]He's so consumedly pround of it. Thackeray.
consumer: One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.
consumingly: In a consuming manner.
consummate: Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality;complete; perfect. "A man of perfect and consummate virtue." Addison.The little band held the post with consummate tenacity. Motley
consummately: In a consummate manner; completely. T. Warton.
consummation: The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated;completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the worldor of life)."Tis a consummation Devoutly to be wished. Shak.From its original to its consummation. Addison.Quiet consummation have, And renownShak.Consummation of marrige, completion of the connubial relation byactual cohabition.
consummative: Serving to consummate; completing. "The final, the consummativeprocedure of philosophy." Sir W. Hamilton.
consumption: A progressive wasting away of the body; esp., that form ofwasting, attendant upon pulmonary phthisis and associated with cough,spitting of blood, hectic fever, etc.; pulmonary phthisis; -- calledalso pulmonary consumption. Consumption of the bowels (Med.),inflammation and ulceration of the intestines from tuberculardisease.
consumptive: Affected with, or inclined to, consumption.The lean, consumptive wench, with coughs decayed. Dryden.
consumptively: In a way tending to or indication consumption. Beddoes.
consumptiveness: A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.
contabescent: Wasting away gradually. Darwin. - Con*ta*bes"cence, n.
contact: The property of two curves, or surfaces, which meet, and at thepoint of meeting have a common direction.
contaction: Act of touching. [Obs.]
contagion: The transmission of a disease from one person to another, bydirect or indirect contact.
contagioned: Affected by contagion.
contagionist: One who believes in the contagious character of certaindiseases, as of yellow fever.
contagious: Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation;catching; as, a contagious disease.
contagious disease: A disease communicable by contact with a patient suffering fromit, or with some secretion of, or object touched by, such a patient.Most such diseases have already been proved to be germ diseases, andtheir communicability depends on the transmission of the livinggerms.  Many germ diseases are not contagious, some special method oftransmission or inoculation of the germs being required.
contagiously: In a contagious manner.
contagiousness: Quality of being contagious.
contagium: Contagion; contagious matter. "Contagium of measles." Tyndall.
contain: To restrain desire; to live in continence or chastity.But if they can not contain, let them marry. 1 Cor. vii. 9.
containable: Capable of being contained or comprised. Boyle.
containant: A container.
container: One who, or that which, contains.
containment: That which is contained; the extent; the substance. [Obs.]The containment of a rich man's estate. Fuller.
contaminable: Capable of being contaminated.
contaminate: To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; totaint; to pollute; to defile.Shall we now Contaminate our figures with base bribes Shak.I would neither have simplicity imposed upon, nor virtuecontaminated. Goldsmith.
contamination: The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement;taint; also, that which contaminates.
contamitive: Tending or liable to contaminate.
contango: The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to beallowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the nextfortnightly settlement day. [Eng.]
conte: A short narrative or tale, esp. one dealing with surprising ormarvelous events.
contection: A covering. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
contek: Contumely; reproach. [Obs.] Wyclif.
contemn: To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; toreject with disdain; to despise; to scorn.Thy pompous delicacies I contemn. Milton.One who contemned divine and human laws. Dryden.
contemner: One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner. "Contemners of thegods." South.
contemningly: Contemptuously. [R.]
contemper: To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; tosoften. [Obs.]The antidotes . . . have allayed its bitterness and contempered itsmalignancy. Johnson.
contemperate: To temper; to moderate. [Obs.]Moisten and contemperate the air. Sir T. Browne.
contemperature: The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture;temperature. [Obs.]The different contemperature of the elements. SDouth.
contemplance: Contemplation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
contemplant: Given to contemplation; meditative. [R.] Coleridge.
contemplate: To consider or think studiously; to ponder; to reflect; tomuse; to meditate.So many hours must I contemplate. Shak.
contemplatist: A contemplator. [R.] I. Taylor.
contemplative: A religious or either sex devoted to prayer and meditation,rather than to active works of charity.
contemplatively: With contemplation; in a contemplative manner.
contemplativeness: The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness.
contemplator: One who contemplates. Sir T. Browne.
contemporaneity: The state of being contemporaneous.The lines of contemporaneity in the oölitic system. J. Philips.
contemporaneous: Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary.The great age of Jewish philosophy, that of Aben Esra, Maimonides,and Kimchi, had been contemporaneous with the later Spanish school ofArabic philosophy. Milman- Con*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n.
contemporaneously: At the same time with some other event.
contemporariness: Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness. Howell.
contemporary: One who lives at the same time with another; as, Petrarch andChaucer were contemporaries.
contempt: Disobedience of the rules, orders, or process of a court ofjustice, or of rules or orders of a legislative body; disorderly,contemptuous, or insolent language or behavior in presence of acourt, tending to disturb its proceedings, or impair the respect dueto its authority.
contemptibility: The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness. Speed.
contemptibleness: The state or quality of being contemptible, or of beingdespised.
contemptibly: In a contemptible manner.
contemptuous: Manifecting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful;haughty; insolent; disdainful.A proud, contemptious behavior. Hammond.Savage invectiveand contemptuous sarcasm. Macaulay.Rome . . . entertained the most contemptuous opinion of the Jews.Atterbury.
contemptuously: In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully.The apostles and most eminent Christians were poor, and usedcontemptuously. Jer. Taylor.
contemptuousness: Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence;haughtiness.
contend: To struggle for; to contest. [R.]Carthage shall contend the world with Rome.Dryden.
contendent: n antagonist; a contestant. [Obs.]In all notable changes and revolutions the contendents have beenstill made a prey to the third party. L'Estrange.
contender: One who contends; a contestant.
contendress: A female contestant. [R.]
contenement: That which is held together with another thing; that which isconnected with a tenetment, or thing holden, as a certin quantity ofland a Burrill.
content: Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited bythat which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied;contented; at rest.Having food rainment, let us be therewith content. 1 Tim. vi. 8.
contentation: Content; satisfaction. [Obs.] Bacon.
contented: Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing.-- Con*tent"ed*ly, adv.-- Con*tent"ed*ness, n.
contentful: Full of content. [Obs.] Barrow.
contentious: Contested; litigated; litigious; having power to decidecontroversy. Contentious jurisdiction (Eng. Eccl. Law), jurisdictionover matters in controversy between parties, in contradistinction tovoluntary jurisdiction, or that exercised upon matters not opposed orcontroverted.
contentless: Discontented; dissatisfied. [R.] Shak.
contently: In a contented manner. [Obs.]
contents: See Content, n.
conterminable: Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place;conterminous.Love and life not conterminable. Sir H. Wotton.
conterminal: Conterminous.
conterminant: Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous.Lamb.
conterminate: Having the same bounds; conterminous. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
conterminous: Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous.This conformed so many of them as were conterminous to the coloniesand garrisons, to the Roman laws. Sir M. Hale.
contesseration: An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union. [Obs.]That person of his [George Herbert], which afforded so unusual acontesseration of elegancies. Oley.
contest: To make a subject of litigation; to defend, as a suit; todispute or resist; as a claim, by course of law; to controvert. Tocontest an election. (Polit.) (a) To strive to be elected. (b) Todispute the declared result of an election.
contestable: Capable of being contested; debatable.
contestant: One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one whoclaims that which has been awarded to another.
contestingly: In a contending manner.
contex: To context. [Obs.] Boyle.
context: Knit or woven together; close; firm. [Obs.]The coats, without, are context and callous. Derham.
contextural: Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producingcontexture; interwoven. Dr. John Smith (1666).
contexture: The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing;a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system;constitution; texture.That wonderful contexture of all created beings. Dryden.He was not of any delicate contexture; his limbs rather sturdy thandainty. Sir H. Wotton.
contextured: Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed. [R.]Carlyle.
conticent: Silent. [R.] "The guests sit conticent." Thackeray.
contiguate: Contiguous; touching. [Obs.] Holland.
contiguity: The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness;proximity.The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton.
contiguous: In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring;adjoining.The two halves of the paper did not appear fully divided . . . butseemed contiguous at one of their angles. Sir I. Newton.Sees no contiguous palace rear its head. Goldsmith.Contiguous angles. See Adjacent angles, under Angle.
continental: Of or pertaining to the confederated colonies collectively, inthe time of the Revolutionary War; as, Continental money.The army before Boston was designated as the Continental army, incontradistinction to that under General Gage, which was called the"Ministerial army." W. Irving.Continental Congress. See under Congress.-- Continental system (Hist.), the blockade of Great Britain orderedby Napoleon by the decree of Berlin, Nov. 21, 1806; the object beingto strike a blow at the maritime and commercial supremacy of GreatBritain, by cutting her off from all intercourse with the continentof Europe.
continental drive: A transmission arrangement in which the longitudinal crankshaft drives the rear wheels through a clutch, change-speed gear,countershaft, and two parallel side chains, in order.
continental glacier: A broad ice sheet resting on a plain or plateau and spreadingoutward from a central névé, or region of accumulation.
continental pronunciation: A method of pronouncing Latin and Greek in which the vowelshave their more familiar Continental values, as in German andItalian, the consonants being pronounced mostly as in English. Thestricter form of this method of pronouncing Latin approaches theRoman, the modified form the English, pronunciation. The Continentalmethod of Greek pronunciation is often called Erasmian.
continental system: The system of commercial blockade aiming to exclude Englandfrom commerce with the Continent instituted by the Berlin decree,which Napoleon I. issued from Berlin Nov. 21, 1806, declaring theBritish Isles to be in a state of blockade, and British subjects,property, and merchandise subject to capture, and excluding Britishships from all parts of Europe under French dominion. The retaliatorymeasures of England were followed by the Milan decree, issued byNapoleon from Milan Dec. 17, 1807, imposing further restrictions, anddeclaring every ship going to or from a port of England or hercolonies to be lawful prize.
continently: In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately.
contingence: See Contingency.
contingency: A certain possible event that may or may not happen, by which,when happening, some particular title may be affected.
contingent: Dependent for effect on something that may or may not occur;as, a contingent estate.If a contingent legacy be left to any one when he attains, or if heattains, the age of twenty-one. Blackstone.
contingently: In a contingent manner; without design or foresight;accidentally.
contingentness: The state of being contingent; fortuitousness.
continuable: Capable of being continued [R.]
continuant: Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound.-- n.
continuative: A term or expression denoting continuance. [R.]To these may be added continuatives; as, Rome remains to this day;which includes, at least, two propositions, viz., Rome was, and Romeis. I. Watts.
continuator: One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues aseries or a work; a continuer. Sir T. Browne.
continued: Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion ofenergy, etc.; extended; protacted; uninterrupted; also, resumed afterinterruption; extending through a succession of issues, session,etc.; as, a continued story. "Continued woe." Jenyns. "Continuedsuccession." Locke. Continued bass (Mus.), a bass continued throughan entire piece of music, while the other parts of the harmony areindicated by figures beneath the bass; the same as thorough bass orfigured bass; basso continuo. [It.] -- Continued fever (Med.), afever which presents no interruption in its course.-- Continued fraction (Math.), a fraction whose numerator is 1, andwhose denominator is a whole number plus a fraction whose numeratoris 1 and whose denominator is a whole number, plus a fraction, and soon.-- Continued proportion (Math.), a proportion composed of two ormore equal ratios, in which the consequent of each preceding ratio isthe same with the antecedent of the folowing one; as, 4
continuedly: Continuously.
continuer: One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance orpersistence. "Indulgent continuers in sin." Hammond.I would my horse had the speed of your tongue, and so good acontinuer. Shak.
continuity: the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection orsuccession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity offibers. Grew.The sight would be tired, if it were attracted by a continuity ofglittering objects. Dryden.Law of continuity (Math. & Physics), the principle that nothingpasses from one state to another without passing through all theintermediate states.-- Solution of continuity. (Math.) See under Solution.
continuo: Basso continuo, or continued bass.
continuous: Not deviating or varying from uninformity; not interrupted; notjoined or articulated. Continuous brake (Railroad), a brake which isattached to each car a train, and can be caused to operate in all thecars simultaneously from a point on any car or on the engine.-- Continuous impost. See Impost.
continuously: In a continuous maner; without interruption.-- Con*tin"u*ous*ness, n.
contline: The space between the strands on the outside of a rope. Knight.
contorsion: See Contortion.
contort: To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort;to wrest.The vertebral arteries are variously contorted. Ray.Kant contorted the term category from the proper meaning ofattributed. Sir W. Hamilton.
contortion: A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortionof the muscles of the face. Swift.All the contortions of the sibyl, without the inspiration. Burke.
contortionist: One who makes or practices contortions.
contortive: Expressing contortion.
contortuplicate: Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of themorning-glory. Gray.
contour: The outline of a horizontal section of the ground, or of worksof fortification. Contour feathers (Zoöl.), those feathers that formthe general covering of a bird.-- Contour of ground (Surv.), the outline of the surface of groundwith respect to its undulation, etc.-- Contour line (Topographical Suv.), the line in which a horizontalplane intersects a portion of ground, or the corresponding line in amap or chart.
contourne: Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of ananimal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter,or the like.
contourniated: Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe.
contra: A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary,in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition ofmany English words. Cf. Counter, adv. & pref.
contraband: Prohibited or excluded by law or treaty; forbidden; as,contraband goods, or trade.The contraband will always keep pace, in some measure, with the fairtrade. Burke.
contrabandism: Traffic in contraband gods; smuggling.
contrabandist: One who traffic illegaly; a smuggler.
contrabass: , n. (Mus.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of thesame deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabassophicleide; the cotrabass tuba or bombardon.
contrabasso: The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone.
contract: To shorten by omitting a letter or letters or by reducing twoor more vowels or syllables to one.
contract tablet: A clay tablet on which was inscribed a contract, for safekeeping.  Such tablets were inclosed in an outer case (often calledthe envelope), on which was inscribed a duplicate of the inscriptionon the inclosed tablet.
contractedness: The state of being contracted; narrowness; meannes;selfishness.
contractibility: Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible;as, the contractibiliy and dilatability of air. Arbuthnot.
contractible: Capable of contraction.Small air bladders distable and contractible. Arbuthnot.
contractibleness: Contractibility.
contractile: tending to contract; having the power or property ofcontracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as,the contractile tissues.The heart's contractile force. H. Brooke.Each cilium seems to be composed of contractile substance. Hixley.Contractile vacuole (Zoöl.), a pulsating cavity in the interior of aprotozoan, supposed to be excretory in function. There may be one,two, or more.
contractility: The power possessed by the fibers of living muscle ofcontracting or shortening.
contraction: The process of shortening an operation.
contractive: Tending to contract; having the property or power or power ofcontracting.
contractor: One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one whocovenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contractsto perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate,as in building houses or making a railroad.
contracture: A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles,generally of the flexor muscles.
contradance: A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or inopposite lines.
contradict: To oppose in words; to gainsay; to deny, or assert the contraryof, something.They . . . spake against those things which were spoken by Paul,contradicting and blaspheming. Acts xiii. 45.
contradictable: Capable of being contradicting.
contradicter: one who contradicts. Swift.
contradictional: Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing. [R.] Milton.
contradictive: Contradictory; inconsistent.-- Con`tra*dict"ive*ly, adv..
contradictor: A contradicter.
contradictorily: In a contradictory manner. Sharp.
contradictoriness: The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency.J. Whitaker.
contradictory: propositions with the same terms, but opposed to each otherboth in quality and quantity.
contradistinct: Distinguished by opposite qualities. J. Goodwin.
contradistinction: Distinction by contrast.That there are such things as sins of infirmity in contradistinctionto those of presumption is not to be questioned. South.
contradistinctive: having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing bycontrast.-- Con`tra*dis*tinc"tive, n.
contradistinguish: To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.These are our complex ideas of soul and body, as contradistinguished.Locke.
contrafagetto: The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon.
contrafissure: A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that whichreceived the blow, or at some distance from it. Coxe.
contrahent: Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties.[Obs.] Mede.
contraindicant: Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode oftreatment is not to be followed. Burke.
contraindicate: To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contraryto that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require.Contraindicating symptoms must be observed. Harvey.
contraindication: An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatmentusual in such cases.
contralto: Of or pertaining to a contralto, or to the part in music calledcontralto; as, a contralto voice.
contramure: An outer wall. [Obs.] Chambers.
contranatural: Opposed to or against nature; unnatural. [R.] Bp. Rust.
contraplex: Pertaining to the sending of two messages in oppositedirections at the same time.
contraposition: A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying theoriginal subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.
contraption: A contrivance; a new-fangled device; -- used scornfully.[Colloq. or Dial.] -- Con*trap"tious (#), a.
contrapuntal: Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint.
contrapuntist: One skilled in counterpoint. L. Mason.
contraremonstrant: One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstraint.[R.]They did the synod wrong to make this distinction ofcontraremonstrants and remonstrants. Hales.
contrariant: Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.[R.]The struggles of contrariant factions. Coleridge.
contrariantly: Contrarily. [Obs.]
contraries: Propositions which directly and destructively contradict eachother, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truthof the other.If two universals differ in quality, they are contraries; as, everyvine is a tree; no vine is a tree. These can never be both truetogether; but they may be both false. I. Watts.
contrarily: (adv. In a contrary manner; in opposition; on the other side;in opposite ways.
contrariness: state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency;contrariety; perverseness; obstinancy.
contrarious: Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse. [Archaic] Milton.She flew contrarious in the face of God. Mrs. Browning.
contrariously: Contrarily; oppositely. Shak.
contrarotation: Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circularmotion.
contrary: Affirming the opposite; so opposed as to destroy each other;as, contrary propositions. Contrary motion (Mus.), the progression ofparts in opposite directions, one ascending, the other descending.
contrast: To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, oropposition of qualities.The joints which divide the sandstone contrast finely with thedivisional planes which separate the basalt into pillars. Lyell.
contrastimulant: Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a courseof medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants.-- n. (Med.)
contrate: Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, insteadof radiating from it. [R.] Contrate wheel. See Crown wheel.
contratenor: Counter tenor; contralto.
contravallation: A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, tosecure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.
contravener: One who contravenes.
contravention: The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction;transgression; violation.Warrants in contravention of the acts of Parliament. Macaulay.In contravention of all his marriage stipulations. Motley.
contraversion: A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe. Congreve.
contrayerva: A species of Dorstenia (D. Contrayerva), a South Americanplant, the aromatic root of which is sometimes used in medicine as agentle stimulant and tonic.
contrecoup: A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in apart or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, oftencausing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected.
contretemps: An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune orembarassing; a hitch.In this unhappy contretemps. De Quincey.
contributable: Capable of being contributed.
contribute: To give or grant i common with others; to give to a commonstock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give(money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute foodor fuel for the poor.England contributes much more than any other of the allies. Addison.
contribution: An irregular and arbitrary imposition or tax leved on thepeople of a town or country.These sums, . . . and the forced contributions paid by lucklesspeasants, enabled him to keep his straggling troops together. Motley.
contribution plan: A plan of distributing surplus by giving to each policy theexcess of premiums and interest earned thereon over the expenses ofmanagement, cost of insurance, and the policy value at the date ofcomputation. This excess is called the contribution of the policy.
contributional: Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.
contributive: Contributing, or tending to contribute. Fuller.
contributor: One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one whowrites articles for a newspaper or magazine.
contributory: Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the sameend; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to somecommon stock; contributive. Milton.Bonfires of contributory wood. Chapman.Contributory negligence (Law), negligence by an injured party, whichcombines with the negligence of the injurer in producing the injury,and which bars recovery when it is the proximate cause of the injury.Wharton.
contrist: To make sad. [Obs.]To deject and contrist myself. Sterne.
contristate: To make sorrowful. [Obs.] Bacon.
contrite: A contrite person. Hooker.
contriteness: Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition.
contriturate: To triturate; to pulverize. [R.]
contrivable: Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised.A perpetual motion may seem easily contrivable. Bp. Wilkins.
contrive: To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; todesign; to plan.What more likely to contrive this admirable frame of the universethan infinite wisdom. Tillotson.neither do thou imagine that I shall contrive aught against his life.Hawthorne.
contrivement: Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan. [Obs.]Consider the admirable contrivement and artifice of this greatfabric. Glanvill.Active to meet their contrivements. Sir G. Buck.
contriver: One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas. Swift.
controllability: Capability of being controlled; controllableness.
controllable: Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenableto command.Passion is the drunkeness of the mind, and, therefore, . . . notalways controllable by reason. South.
controllableness: Capability of being controlled.
controller: An iron block, usually bolted to a ship's deck, for controllingthe running out of a chain cable. The links of the cable tend to dropinto hollows in the block, and thus hold fast until disengaged.
controllership: The office of a controller.
controversary: Controversial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
controverse: Controversy. [Obs.] Spenser.
controverser: A disputant. [Obs.]
controversial: Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious;polemical; as, controversial divinity.Whole libraries of controversial books. Macaulay.
controversialist: One who carries on a controversy; a disputant.He [Johnson] was both intellectually and morally of the stuff ofwhich controversialists are made. Macaulay.
controversially: In a controversial manner.
controversion: Act of controverting; controversy. [Obs.] Hooker.
controversor: A controverser. [Obs.]
controvert: To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose byreasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; todebate.Some controverted points had decided according to the sense of thebest jurists. Macaulay.
controverter: One who controverts; a controversial writer; acontroversialist.Some controverters in divinity are like swaggerers in a tavern. B.Jonson.
controvertible: Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting ofquestion.-- Con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.
controvertist: One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist.How unfriendly is the controvertist to the discernment of the critic!Campbell.
contumacious: Willfully disobedient to the summous or prders of a court.Blackstone.
contumacy: A willful contempt of, and disobedience to, any lawful summons,or to the rules and orders of court, as a refusal to appear in courtwhen legally summoned.
contumely: Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornfulinsolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act orspeech; disgrace.The oppressor's wrong, the proud man's contumely. Shak.Nothing aggravates tyranny so much as contumely. Burke.
contusion: A bruise; an injury attended with more or less disorganizationof the subcutaneous tissue and effusion of blood beneath the skin,but without apparent wound.
conure: An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus. Many species areknown. See Parrakeet.
conus: A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone,n., 4.
conusable: Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged. [Obs.] Bp. Barlow.
conusant: See Cognizant.
conusor: See Cognizor.
convalesce: To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness orweakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce.
convalesced: Convalescent. [R.]He found the queen somewhat convalesced. J. Knox.
convalescent: One recovering from sickness.
convalescently: In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength orvigor.
convallamarin: A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as aglucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (ConvallariaMajalis). Its taste is first bitter, then sweet.
convallaria: The lily of the valley.
convallarin: A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste,extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley.
convection: A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat orelectricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting fromchanges of temperature and other causes.Liquids are generally heated by convection -- when heat is appliedfrom bellow. Nichol.
convective: Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convectivedischarge of electricity. Faraday.
convectively: In a convective manner. Hare.
convellent: Tending to tear or pull up. [Obs.]The ends of the fragment . . . will not yield to the convellentforce. Todd & Bowman.
convenable: Capable of being convened or assembled.
convenance: That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient.And they missed Their wonted convenance, cheerly hid the loss.Emerson.
conveniently: In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty.
convent: To call before a judge or judicature; to summon; to convene.[Obs.] Shak.
conventical: Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent. "Conventical wages."Sterne. Conventical prior. See Prior.
conventicler: One who supports or frequents conventicles. Dryden.
conventicling: Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle. [Obs.]Conventicling schools . . . set up and taught secretly by fanatics.South.
convention: An extraordinary assembly of the parkiament or estates of therealm, held without the king's writ, -- as the assembly whichrestored Charles II. to the throne, and that which declared thethrone to be abdicated by James II.Our gratitude is due . . . to the Long Parliament, to the Convention,and to William of Orange. Macaulay.
conventionalism: The principles or practice of conventionalizing. SeeConventionalize, v. t.
conventionality: The state of being conventional; adherence to socialformalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use;one of the customary usages of social life.
conventionalize: To make designs in art, according to conventional principles.Cf. Conventionalize, v. t., 2.
conventionally: In a conventional manner.
conventionary: Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as,conventionary tenants. [Obs.] R. Carew.
conventioner: One who belongs to a convention or assembly.
conventionist: One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract.
conventual: Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic. "A conventual garb."Macaulay. Conventual church, a church attached or belonging to aconvent or monastery. Wordsworth.
converge: To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together;as, lines converge.The mountains converge into a single ridge. Jefferson.
convergent: tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other;converging.As many rays of light, as conveniently can be let in, and madeconvergent. Boyle.The vast dome of its cathedral . . . directing its convergent curvesto heaven. Hallam.
converging: Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as,converging lines. Whewell. Converging rays(Opt.), rays of light,which, proceeding from different points of an object, tend toward asingle point.-- Converging series (Math.), a series in which if an indefinitelygreat number of terms be taken, their sum will become indefinitelynear in value to a fixed quantity, which is called the sum of theseries; -- opposed to a diverging series.
conversable: Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable;free in discourse.While young, humane, conversable, and kind. Cowper.
conversableness: The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse;sociability.
conversably: In a conversable manner.
conversance: The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity;familiar acquaintance; intimacy. [R.]
conversancy: Conversance [R.]
conversant: One who converses with another; a convenser. [R.]
conversantly: In a familiar manner.
conversational: Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing;as, a conversational style. Thackeray.
conversationalist: A conversationist.
conversationed: Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved. [Obs.]Till she be better conversationed, . . . I'll keep As far from her asthe gallows. Beau. & Fl.
conversationism: A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloqualism.
conversationist: One who converses much, or who excels in conversation. Byron.
conversative: Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed tocontemplative.She chose . . . to endue him with the conversative qualities ofyouth. Sir H. Wotton.
conversazione: A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly onliterary or scientific subjects. Gray.These conversazioni [at Florence] resemble our card assemblies. A.Drummond.
converse: , a. Etym
conversely: In a converse manner; with change of order or relation;reciprocally. J. S. Mill.
converser: One who engages in conversation.
conversible: Capable of being converted or reversed. Hammond.
conversion: An appropriation of, and dealing with the property of anotheras if it were one's own, without right; as, the conversion of ahorse.Or bring my action of conversion And trover for my goods. Hudibras.
convert: To change (one proposition) into another, so that what was thesubject of the first becomes the predicate of the second.
convertend: Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion;-- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after whichprocess it is termed the conversae. See Converse, n. (Logic).
converter: A retort, used in the Bessemer process, in which molten castiron is decarburized and converted into steel by a blast of airforced through the liquid metal.
convertibility: The condition or quality of being convertible; capability ofbeing exchanged; convertibleness.The mutual convertibility of land into money, and of money into land.Burke.
convertibleness: The state of being convertible; convertibility.
convertibly: In a convertible manner.
convertite: A convert. [Obs.] Shak.
convex: Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularlyprotuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved linewhen viewed from without, in opposition to concave.Drops of water naturally form themselves into figures with a convexsurface. Whewell.Double convex, convex on both sides; convexo-convex.
convexed: Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form. Sir T. Browne.
convexedly: In a convex form; convexly. Sir T. Browne.
convexedness: Convexity.
convexity: The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convexbody; roundness.A smooth, uniform convexity and rotundity of a globe. Bentley.
convexly: In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped.
convexness: The state of being convex; convexity.
convexo-concave: Convex on one side, and concave on the other. The curves of theconvex and concave sides may be alike or may be different. SeeMeniscus.
convexo-convex: Convex on botConvex, a.
convexo-plane: Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex.
convey: To play the thief; to steal. [Cant]But as I am Crack, I will convey, crossbite, and cheat uponSimplicius. Marston.
conveyable: Capable of being conveyed or transferred. Burke.
conveyance: The act by which the title to property, esp. real estate, istransferred; transfer of ownership; an instrument in writing (as adeed or mortgage), by which the title to property is conveyed fromone person to another.[He] found the conveyances in law to be so firm, that in justice hemust decree the land to the earl. Clarendon.
conveyancer: One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, asdeeds, mortgages, leases, etc. Burrill.
conveyancing: The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawingdeeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title toproperty from one person to another.
conveyor: A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp.,one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turningin a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck runningalong a rope.
conviciate: To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail. [Obs.]To conviciate instead of accusing. Laud.
convicinity: Immediate vicinity; neighborhood.The convicinity and contiguity of the two parishes. T. Warton.
convicious: Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting. [Obs.]"Convicious words." Queen Elizabeth (1559).
convict: Proved or found guilty; convicted. [Obs.] Shak.Convict by flight, and rebel to all law. Milton.
convictible: Capable of being convicted. [R.] Ash.
conviction: A judgment of condemnation entered by a court havingjurisdiction; the act or process of finding guilty, or the state ofbeing found guilty of any crime by a legal tribunal.Conviction may accrue two ways. Blackstone.
convictism: The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penalsettlements. "The evils of convictism." W. Howitt.
convictive: Convincing. [R.]The best and most convictive argument. Glanwill.-- Con*vict"ive*ly, adv.-- Con*vict"ive*ness, n.
convincement: Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.[R.]The fear of a convincement. Milton.
convincer: One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof.
convincingly: in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent.
convincingness: The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing.
convival: pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial. [Obs.] "Aconvival dish." Sir T. Browne.
convive: To feast together; to be convivial. [Obs.] "There, in the full,convive we." Shak.
convivial: Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating anddrinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.Which feasts convivial meetings we did name. Denham.
convivialist: A person of convivial habits.
conviviality: The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; aconvivial spirit or humor; festivity.
convivially: In a convivial manner.
convocate: To convoke; to call together. [Obs.] May (Lucan).
convocation: An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consulton ecclesiastical affairs.
convocational: Of or pertaining to a convocation.
convocationist: An advocate or defender of convocation.
convoke: To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.There remained no resource but the dreadful one of convoking aparliament. palfrey.
convolute: Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of theleaves of plants in æstivation.
convolution: An irregular, tortuous folding of an organ or part; as, theconvolutions of the intestines; the cerebral convolutions. See Brain.
convolve: To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another.Then Satan first knew pain, And writhed him to and fro convolved.Milton.
convolvulaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of whichthe bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples.
convolvulin: A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceousplant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass ofpowerful purgative properties.
convolvulus: A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, includingthe common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory,but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomæa.The luster of the long convolvuluses That coiled around the statelystems. Tennyson.
convoy: To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attendfor protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman.I know ye skillful to convoy The total freight of hope and joy.Emerson.
convulsion: An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of themuscular parts of an animal body.
convulsional: Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary. [R.]Lamb.
convulsionary: Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive. "Convulsionarystruggles." Sir W. Scott.
convulsionist: One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics inFrance, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsionsunder the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists ofSt. Médard.
convulsive: Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms;characterized by convulsions; convulsionary.An irregular, convulsive movement may be necessary to throw off anirregular, convulsive disease. Burke.
convulsively: in a convulsive manner.
cony-catch: To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.]Take heed, Signor Baptista, lest you be cony-catched in the thisbusiness. Shak.
cony-catcher: A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver. [Obs.] Minsheu.
conylene: An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives ofconine.
conyrine: A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative ofpyridine), obtained from conine.
coo: A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes asa call or signal. [Written also cooie.]
cook: To make the noise of the cuckoo. [Obs. or R.]Constant cuckoos cook on every side. The Silkworms (1599).
cookbook: A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book.[U.S.]"Just How"
cookee: A female cook. [R.]
cookery: See Cooky.
cookmaid: A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists thecook.
cookroom: A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship.Sir W. Raleigh.
cookshop: An eating house. "A subterranean cookshop." Macaulay.
cooky: A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.
cool: A moderate state of cold; coolness; -- said of the temperatureof the air between hot and cold; as, the cool of the day; the cool ofthe morning or evening.
cool-headed: Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion.-- Cool"-head`ed*ness, n.
cooler: That which cools, or abates heat or excitement.if acid things were used only as coolers, they would not be so properin this case. Arbuthnot.
coolie: Same as Cooly.
cooling: Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat. "The coolingbrook." Goldsmith. Cooling card, something that dashes hopes. [Obs.]-- Cooling time (Law), such a lapse of time as ought, taking all thecircumstances of the case in view, to produce a subsiding of passionpreviously provoked. Wharton.
coolish: Somewhat cool.The nights began to grow a little coolish. Goldsmith.
coolly: Coolish; cool. [Obs.] Spenser.
coolung: The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea). [Also writtencoolen and cullum.]
coom: Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comesfrom axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven. Phillips.Bailey.
coomb: A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter. [Written alsocomb.]
coon: A raccoon. See Raccoon.
cooncan: A game of cards derived from conquian, played by two or moreplayers with one or two full packs of cards.
coontie: A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamiaintegrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared.
coop: To confine in a coop; hence, to shut up or confine in a narrowcompass; to cramp; -- usually followed by up, sometimes by in.The Trojans coopet within their walls so long. Dryden.The contempt of all other knowledge . . . coops the understanding upwithin narrow bounds. Locke.
coopee: See Coupe. [Obs.] Johnson.
cooper: One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc.
cooperant: Operating together; as, coöperant forces.
cooperate: To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur inaction, effort, or effect.Whate'er coöperates to the common mirth. Crashaw.
cooperation: The association of a number of persons for their benefit.
cooperative: Operating jointly to the same end. Coöperative society, asociety established on the principle of a joint-stock association,for the production of commodities, or their purchase and distributionfor consumption, or for the borrowing and lending of capital amongits members.-- Coöperative store, a store established by a coöperative society,where the members make their purchases and share in the profits orlosses.
cooperator: One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end."Coöperators with the truth." Boyle.
coopering: Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks,etc.; the business of a cooper.
coopery: Relating to a cooper; coopered. [Obs.]Coopery vessels made of wood. Holland.
coopt: To choose or elect in concert with another. [R.]Each of the hundred was to coöpt three others. Jowett (Thysyd. ).
cooptate: To choose; to elect; to coöpt. [Obs.] Cockeram.
cooptation: The act of choosing; selection; choice. [Obs.]The first election and coöptation of a friend. Howell.
coordain: To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another.
coordinance: Joint ordinance.
coordinate: Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.Whether there was one Supreme Governor of the world, or manycoördinate powers presiding over each country. Law.Conjunctions joint sentences and coördinate terms. Rev. R. Morris.Coördinate adjectives, adjectives disconnected as regards aneanother, but referring equally to the same subject.-- Coördinate conjunctions, conjunctions joining independentpropositions. Rev. R. Morris.
coordinately: In a coördinate manner.
coordinateness: The state of being coördinate; equality of rank or authority.
coordinative: Expressing coördination. J. W. Gibbs.
cootfoot: The pharalope; -- so called because its toes are like thecoot's.
coothay: A striped satin made in India. McElrath.
cop: same as Merlon.
cop-rose: The red, or corn, poppy. [Written also cup-rose.]
copal: A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees ofZanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum,T. verrocosum, and Hymenæa Courbaril), and dug from earth whereforests have stood in Africa; -- used chiefly in making varnishes. Ur
copalm: The yellowish, fragrant balsam yielded by the sweet gum; also,the tree itself.
coparcenary: Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right ofsucession to an inheritance.
coparcener: One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance.All the coparceners together make but one heir, and have but oneestate among them. blackstone.
coparceny: An equal share of an inheritance.
copart: To share. [Obs.]For, of all miserias, I hold that chief Wretched to be, when nonecoparts our grief. Webster (1661).
copartment: A compartment. [Obs.] T. Warton.
copartner: One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons inbusiness, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer.the associates and copartners of our loss. Milton.
copartnery: the state of being copartners in any undertaking. [R.]
copatain: Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top. [Obs.]A copatain hat made on a Flemish block. Gascoigne.
copatriot: A joint patriot.
cope: The top part of a flask or mold; the outer part of a loam mold.Knight. De Colange.
cope-chisel: A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove. Knight.
copeck: A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.
coped: Clad in a cope.
copelata: See Larvalla.
copeman: A chapman; a dealer; a merchant. [Obs.]He would have sold his part of paradise For ready money, had he met acopeman. B. Jonson.
copenhagen: A sweetened hot drink of spirit and beaten eggs.
copepod: Of or pertaining to the Copepoda.-- n.
copepoda: An order of Entomastraca, including many minute Crustacea, bothfreshwater and marine.
copernican: Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d.1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called theCopernican system.
copesmate: An associate or companion; a friend; a partner. [Obs.]Misshapen time, copesmate of ugly Night. Shak.
copestone: A stone for coping. See Coping.
coping: The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often withsloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping. Gwill.
copious: Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.Kindly pours its copious treasures forth. Thomson.Hail, Son of God, Savior of men! thy name Shall be the copious matterof my song. Milton.
copiously: In a copious manner.
copiousness: The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also,diffuseness in style.To imitatethe copiousness of Homer. Dryden.
copist: A copier. [Obs.] "A copist after nature." Shaftesbury.
coplanar: Situated in one plane.
copland: A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle. [Obs.]
coportion: Equal share. [Obs.]Myself will bear . . . coportion of your pack. Spenser.
copped: Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested. Wiseman.
coppel: See Cupel.
copper: the boilers in the galley for cooking; as, a ship's coppers.
copper works: A place where copper is wrought or manufactured. Woodward.
copper-bottomed: Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or othervessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.
copper-faced: Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.
copper-fastened: Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, acopper-fastened ship.
copper-nickel: Nicolite.
copper-nose: A red nose. Shak.
copperas: Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystallinesubstance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeingblack, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale bythe oxidation of iron pyrites. Called also ferrous sulphate.
copperhead: A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closelyallied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called alsocopper-belly, and red viper.
copperish: Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper;as, a copperish taste.
coppersmith: One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; aworker in copper.
coppery: Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; likecopper.
coppice: A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut atcertain times for fuel or other purposes. See Copse.The rate of coppice lands will fall, upon the discovery of coalmines. Locke.
coppin: A cop of thread.
copple: Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hillrising to a point.A low cape, and upon it a copple not very high. Hakluyt.
copple dust: Cupel dust. [Obs.]Powder of steel, or copple dust. Bacon.
copple-crown: A created or high-topped crown or head. "Like the copple-crownthe lapwing has." T. Randolph.-- Cop"ple-crowned`, a.
coppled: Rising to a point; conical; copped. [Obs.] Woodward.
copplestone: A cobblestone. [Obs.]
copps: See Copse. [Obs.]
copra: The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil isexpressed. [Written also cobra, copperah, coppra.]
coprolite: A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.
coprolitic: Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.
coprophagan: A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.
coprophagous: Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.
cops: The connecting crook of a harrow. [Prov. Eng.]
copse: A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.Near yonder copse where once the garden smiled. Goldsmith.
copsewood: Brushwood; coppice. Macaulay.
copsy: Characterized by copses. "Copsy villages." "Copsy banks." J.Dyer.
coptic: Of or pertaining to the Copts.-- n.
coptic church: The native church of Egypt or church of Alexandria, which ingeneral organization and doctrines resembles the Roman CatholicChurch, except that it holds to the Monophysitic doctrine which wascondemned (a. d. 451) by the council of Chalcedon, and allows itspriests to marry. The "pope and patriarch" has jurisdiction over theAbyssinian Church. Since the 7th century the Coptic Church has beenso isolated from modifying influences that in many respects it is themost ancient monument of primitive Christian rites and ceremonies.But centuries of subjection to Moslem rule have weakened and degradedit.
copula: The word which unites the subject and predicate.
copulate: Joining subject and predicate; copulative. F. A. March.
copulative: Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulativeconjunction like "and".
copulatively: In a copulative manner.
copulatory: Used in sexual union; as, the copulatory organs of insects.
copy: Manuscript or printed matter to be set up in type; as, theprinters are calling for more copy.
copyer: See Copier.
copygraph: A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing ordrawing.
copyholder: One possessed of land in copyhold.
copying: From Copy, v. Copying ink. See under Ink.-- Copying paper, thin unsized paper used for taking copies ofletters, etc., in a copying press.-- Copying press, a machine for taking by pressure, an exact copy ofletters, etc., written in copying ink.
copyist: A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.
copyright: The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to printand publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all otherpersons. This right may be had in maps, charts, engravings, plays,and musical compositions, as well as in books.
coque: A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc.
coquelicot: The wild poppy, or red corn rose.
coquet: To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; totreat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive anddisappoint.You are coquetting a maid of honor. Swift.
coquetry: Attempts to attract admoration, notice, or love, for the meregratification of vanity; trifling in love. "Little affectations ofcoquetry." Addison.
coquette: A tropical humming bird of the genus Lophornis, with veryelegant neck plumes. Several species are known. See Illustrationunder Spangle, v. t.
coquettish: Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.A pretty, coquettish housemaid. W. Irving.
coquettishly: In a coquettish manner.
coquilla nut: The fruit of a Brazilian tree (Attalea funifera of Martius.).
coquimbite: A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; whitecopperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo,Chili.
coquina: A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells andcorals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbedsand for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.
cor: A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer. [Written also core.]
cor-: A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.
cora: The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia toNorth Africa.
coracle: A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather oroilcloth. It was used by the ancient Britons, and is still used byfisherman in Wales and some parts of Ireland. Also, a similar boatused in Thibet and in Egypt.
coracoid: Pertaining to a bone of the shoulder girdle in most birds,reptiles, and amphibians, which is reduced to a process of thescapula in most mammals.
corage: See Courage [Obs.]To Canterbury with full devout corage. Chaucer.
corah: Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n.
coral: The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a fewHydrozoa. Similar structures are also formed by some Bryozoa.
coral fish: Any bright-colored fish of the genera Chætodon, Pomacentrus,Apogon, and related genera, which live among reef corals.
coral-rag: Same as Corallian.
coraled: Having coral; covered with coral.
corallaceous: Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.
corallian: A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of themiddle division of the oölite; -- called also coral-rag.
coralliferous: Containing or producing coral.
coralliform: resembling coral in form.
coralligena: Same as Anthozoa.
coralligenous: producing coral; coraligerous; coralliferous. Humble.
coralligerous: Producing coral; coraliferous.
corallin: A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly ofrosolic acid. See Aurin, and Rosolic acid under Rosolic. Redcorallin, a red dyestuff which is obtained by treating aurin orrosolic acid with ammonia; -- called also pæonin.-- Yellow corallin. See Aurin.
coralline: Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.
corallinite: A fossil coralline.
corallite: A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.
coralloid: Having the form of coral; branching like coral.
coralloidal: resembling coral; coralloid. Sir T. browne.
corallum: The coral or skeleton of a zoöphyte, whether calcareous ofhorny, simple or compound. See Coral.
coralwort: A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- calledalso toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.
coranach: A lamentation for the dead; a dirge. [Written also coranich,corrinoch, coronach, cronach, etc.] [Scot.]
corb: An ornament in a building; a corbel.
corbe: Crooked. [Obs.] "Corbe shoulder." Spenser.
corbeil: A sculptured basket of flowers; a corbel. [Obs.]
corbel: A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving thespring of an arch. Corbels were employed largely in Gothicarchitecture.
corbel-table: A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling betweenthem; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.
corbiestep: One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished inplace of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.
corchorus: The common name of the kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, ayellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashionedgardens.
cord: Any structure having the appearance of a cord, esp. a tendon ora nerve. See under Spermatic, Spinal, Umbilical, Vocal.
cordage: Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope orcord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.
cordal: Same as Cordelle.
cordate: Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.
cordately: In a cordate form.
corded: Bound about, or wound, with cords.
cordelier: A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knottedcord worn by all Franciscans.
cordeling: Twisting.
cordelle: A twisted cord; a tassel. Halliwell.
cordial: Any invigorating and stimulating preparation; as, a peppermintcordial.
cordialize: To grow cordial; to feel or express cordiality. [R.]
cordially: In a cordial manner. Dr. H. More.
cordialness: Cordiality. Cotgrave.
cordierite: See Iolite.
cordiform: Heart-shaped. Gray.
cordillera: A mountain ridge or chain.
cordiner: A cordwainer. [Obs.]
cordite: A smokeless powder composed of nitroglycerin, guncotton, andmineral jelly, and used by the British army and in other services. Inmaking it the ingredients are mixed into a paste with the addition ofacetone and pressed out into cords  (of various diameters) resemblingbrown twine, which are dried and cut to length. A variety containingless nitroglycerin than the original is known  as cordite M. D.
cordon: The coping of the scarp wall, which projects beyong the face ofthe wall a few inches.
cordonnet: Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used fortassels, fringes, etc. McElrath.
cordovan: Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leathermade from horsehide.
corduroy: Trousers or breeches of corduroy. Corduroy road, a roadwayformed of logs laid side by side across it, as in marshy places; --so called from its rough or ribbed surface, resembling corduroy.[U.S.]
cordwain: A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskintanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished,colored, gilded, or the like.Buskins he wore of costliest cordwain. Spenser.
cordwainer: A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.[Archaic.]
cordy: Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts.
core: A body of individuals; an assemblage. [Obs.]He was in a core of people. Bacon.
core loss: Energy wasted by hysteresis or eddy currents in the core of anarmature, transformer, etc.
coreopsis: A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two-horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed. C. tinctoria,of the Western plains, the commonest plant of the genus, has beenused in dyeing.
coreplasty: A plastic operation on the pupil, as for forming an artificialpupil. -- Cor`e*plas"tic (-plas"tik), a.
corer: That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an applecorer.
corf: A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the MediterraneanSea.
coriaceous: Stiff, like leather or parchment.
coriander: An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit orseeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicineare considered as stomachic and carminative.
coridine: A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor,occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded asan organic base, homologous with pyridine. Also, one of a series ofmetameric compounds of which coridine is a type. [Written alsocorindine.]
corindon: See Corrundum.
corinne: The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle. [Written alsokorin.]
corinthiac: Pertaining to Corinth.
corinthian: Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture,invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.This is the lightest and most ornamental of the three orders used bythe Greeks. Parker.
corival: A rival; a corrival.
cork fossil: A variety of amianthus which is very light, like cork.
corkage: The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and takingcare of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.
corked: having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottleof wine is corked.
corkiness: The quality of being corky.
corking pin: A pin of a large size, formerly used attaching a woman'sheaddress to a cork mold. [Obs.] Swift.
corkscrew: An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corksfrom bottles. Corkscrew starts, a spiral staircase around a solidnewel.
corkwing: A fish; the goldsinny.
corkwood: The tree producing the aligator apple. (3)
corm: A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.
cormogeny: The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.
cormophylogeny: The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals. Haeckel.
cormorant: Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sacunder the beak; the shag. Cormorants devour fish voraciously, andhave become the emblem of gluttony. They are generally black, andhence are called sea ravens, and coalgeese. [Written also corvorant.]
cormoraut: Ravenous; voracious.Cormorant, devouring time. Shak.
cormus: See Corm.
corn: A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees,by friction or pressure. It is usually painful and troublesome.Welkome, gentlemen! Ladies that have their toes Unplagued with corns,will have a bout with you. Shak.
cornage: Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to givenotice of an invasion by blowing a horn.
cornamute: A cornemuse. [Obs.]
cornbind: A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis,Polygonum Convolvulus. [Prov. Eng.]
corncob: The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.[U.S.]
corncrake: A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grainfields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.
corncrib: A crib for storing corn.
corndodger: A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a coveringof husks or paper, and baked under the embers. [U.S.] Bartlett.
cornea: The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which coversthe iris and pupil and admits light to the interior. See Eye.
corneal: Pertaining to the cornea.
cornel: The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub withclusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edibledrupes resembling cherries.
cornelian: Same as Carnelian.
cornemuse: A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe. Drayton.
corneocalcareous: Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as someshells and corals.
corneous: Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard. Sir T. Browne.
cornercap: The chief ornament. [Obs.]Thou makest the triumviry the cornercap of society. Shak.
cornered: 1 Having corners or angles.
cornerwise: With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.
cornet: See Coronet, 2.
cornet-a-piston: A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished withvalves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.
cornetcy: The commission or rank of a cornet.
corneter: One who blows a cornet.
corneule: One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.Carpenter.
cornfield: A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, afield of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indiancorn.
cornfloor: A thrashing floor. Hos. ix. 1.
cornflower: A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing ingrainfields.
cornic: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornusflorida).
cornice: Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection whichcrowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the corniceof an order, pedestal, door, window, or house. Gwilt. Cornice ring,the ring on a cannon next behind the muzzle ring.
corniced: Having a cornice.
cornicle: A little horn. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
cornicular: A secretary or clerk. [Obs.] Chaucer.
corniculate: Having processes resembling small horns.
corniculum: A small hornlike part or process.
corniferous: Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age.(Seethe Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been socalled from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize thelater part of the period, as developed in the State of New York.
cornific: Producing horns; forming horn.
cornification: Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.
cornified: Converted into horn; horny.
corniform: Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.
cornigerous: Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
corniplume: A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.
cornish: Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England. Cornish chough. SeeChough.-- Cornish engine, a single-acting pumping engine, used in mines, inCornwall and elsewhere, and for water works. A heavy pump rod orplunger, raised by the steam, forces up the water by its weight, indescending.
cornist: A performer on the cornet or horn.
cornloft: A loft for corn; a granary.
cornmuse: A cornemuse.
corno di bassetto: A tenor clarinet; -- called also basset horn, and sometimesconfounded with the English horn, which is a tenor oboe.
corno inglese: A reed instrument, related to the oboe, but deeper in pitch;the English horn.
cornopean: An obsolete name for the cornet-à-piston.
cornsheller: A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.
cornshuck: The husk covering an ear of Indian corn. [Colloq. U.S.]
cornstalk: A stalk of Indian corn.
cornstarch: Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used forpuddings, etc.
cornu: A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.
cornu ammonis: A fossil shell, curved like a ram's horn; an obsolete name foran ammonite.
cornucopia: A genus of grasses bearing spikes of flowers resembling thecornucopia in form.
cornute: To bestow horns upon; to make a cuckold of; to cuckold. [Obs.]Burton.
cornuto: A man that wears the horns; a cuckold. [R.] Shak.
cornutor: A cuckold maker. [R.] Jordan.
corny: Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.Up stood the cornu reed. Milton.
corocore: A kind of boat of various forms, used in the IndianArchipelago.
corody: An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey orother religious house for the sustenance of such of the king'sservants as he may designate to receive it. [Written also corrody.]
corol: A corolla.
corolla: The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds theorgans of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, calledpetals. It is usually distinguished from the calyx by the fineness ofits texture and the gayness of its colors. See the Note underBlossom.
corollaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form ortexture of a corolla.
corollary: Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.
corollet: A floret in an aggregate flower. [Obs.] Martyn.
corolline: Of or pertaining to a corolla.
coromandel: The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay ofBengal. Coromandel gooseberry. See Carambola.-- Coromandel wood, Calamander wood.
corona: The projecting part of a Classic cornice, the under side ofwhich is cut with a recess or channel so as to form a drip. SeeIllust. of Column.
coronach: See Coranach.
coronal: Of or pertaining to the shell of a sea urchin. Coronal suture(Anat.), a suture extending across the skull between the parietal andfrontal bones; the frontoparietal suture.
coronamen: The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.
coronary: Resembling, or situated like, a crown or circlet; as, thecoronary arteries and veins of the heart.
coronary bone: The small pastern bone of the horse and allied animals.
coronary cushion: A cushionlike band of vascular tissue at the upper border ofthe wall of the hoof of the horse and allied animals. It takes animportant part in the secretion of the horny walls.
coronel: A colonel. [Obs.] Spenser.
coroner: An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire,with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden ormysterious death, or death in prison, usually on sight of the bodyand at the place where the death occurred. [In England formerly alsowritten and pronounced crowner.]
coronet: The upper part of a horse's hoof, where the horn terminates inskin. James White.
coroneted: Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth orrank.
coroniform: Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.
coronilla: A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowersarranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.
coronium: The principal gaseous substance forming the solar corona,characterized by a green line in the coronal spectrum.
coronoid: Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of thejaw, or of the ulna.
coronule: A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds.See Pappus. Martyn.
coroun: Crown. [Obs.] Chaucer.
corporace: See Corporas.
corporal: A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant. In the UnitedStates army he is the lowest noncomissioned officer in a company ofinfantry. He places and relieves sentinels. Corporal's guard, adetachment such as would be in charge of a corporal for guard duty,etc.; hence, derisively, a very small number of persons.-- Lance corporal, an assistant corporal on private's pay. Farrow.-- Ship's corporal (Naut.), a petty officer who assists the masterat arms in his various duties.
corporally: In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.Sharp.
corporalship: A corporal's office.
corporas: The corporal, or communion cloth. [Obs.] Fuller.
corporate: To incorporate. [Obs.] Stow.
corporation: A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law toact as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity ofsuccession; a society having the capacity of transacting business asan individual.
corporator: A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.
corporature: The state of being embodied; bodily existence. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
corporeal: Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material bodyor substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.His omnipotence That to corporeal substance could add Speed almostspiritual. Milton.Corporeal property, such as may be seen and handled (as opposed toincorporeal, which can not be seen or handled, and exists only incontemplation). Mozley & W.
corporealism: Materialism. Cudworth.
corporealist: One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; amaterialist.Some corporealists pretended . . . to make a world without a God. Bp.Berkeley.
corporeality: The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.
corporeally: In the body; in a bodily form or manner.
corporealness: Corporeality; corporeity.
corporeity: The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal;materiality.The one attributed corporeity to God. Bp. Stillingfleet.Those who deny light to be matter, do not therefore deny itscorporeity. Coleridge.
corporify: To embody; to form into a body. [Obs.] Boyle.
corposant: St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.
corps: The land with which a prebend or other ecclesiastical office isendowed. [Obs.]The prebendaries over and above their reserved rents have a corps.Bacon.Army corps, or (French) Corps d'armée (k, a body containing two ormore divisions of a large army, organized as a complete army initself.-- Corps de logis (ke l Etym
corpulently: In a corpulent manner.
corpus: A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.Corpus callosum (k; pl. Corpora callosa (-s Etym
corpuscle: A protoplasmic animal cell; esp., such as float free, likeblood, lymph, and pus corpuscles; or such as are imbedded in anintercellular matrix, like connective tissue and cartilagecorpuscles. See Blood.Virchow showed that the corpuscles of bone are homologous with thoseof connective tissue. Quain's Anat.Red blood corpuscles (Physiol.), in man, yellowish, biconcave,circular discs varying from 1/3500 to 1/3200 of an inch in diameterand about 1/12400 of an inch thick. They are composed of a colorlessstroma filled in with semifluid hæmoglobin and other matters. In mostmammals the red corpuscles are circular, but in the camels, birds,reptiles, and the lower vertebrates generally, they are oval, andsometimes more or less spherical in form. In Amphioxus, and mostinvertebrates, the blood corpuscles are all white or colorless.-- White blood corpuscles (Physiol.), rounded, slightly flattened,nucleated cells, mainly protoplasmic in composition, and possessed ofcontractile power. In man, the average size is about 1/2500 of aninch, and they are present in blood in much smaller numbers than thered corpuscles.
corpuscular: Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.Corpuscular philosophy, that which attempts to account for thephenomena of nature, by the motion, figure, rest, position, etc., ofthe minute particles of matter.-- Corpuscular theory (Opt.), the theory enunciated by Sir IsaacNewton, that light consists in the emission and rapid progression ofminute particles or corpuscles. The theory is now generally rejected,and supplanted by the undulatory theory.
corpuscularian: Corpuscular. [Obs.]
corpuscule: A corpuscle. [Obs.]
corpusculous: Corpuscular. Tyndall.
corrade: To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.
corradial: Radiating to or from the same point. [R.] Coleridge.
corradiate: To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.
corradiation: A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point. Bacom
corral: A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, byemigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of securityfor horses, cattle, etc.
corrasion: The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water,principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream,but also by the solvent action of the water.
corrasive: Corrosive. [Obs.]Corrasive sores which eat into the flesh. Holland.
correct: Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth,rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; nnot faulty orimperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.Always use the most correct editions. Felton.
correctify: To correct. [Obs.]When your worship's plassed to correctify a lady. Beau & Fl.
correctional: Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction;as, a correctional institution.
correctioner: One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction. [Obs.]Shak.
correctly: In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault orerror.
correctness: The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness ofopinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writingor speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.
corrector: One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; acorrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.
correctory: Containing or making correction; corrective.
correctress: A woman who corrects.
corregidor: The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.
correi: A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies. "Fleetfoot on the correi." Sir W. Scott.
correlatable: Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.
correlate: To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.Doctrine and worship correlate as theory and practice. Tylor.
correlation: Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism ofrelation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving placeto, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation offorces, or of zymotic diseases. Correlation of energy, the relationto one another of different forms of energy; -- usually having somereference to the principle of conservation of energy. SeeConservation of energy, under Conservation.-- Correlation of forces, the relation between the forces whichmatter, endowed with various forms of energy, may exert.
correlative: Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.Father and son, prince and subject, stranger and citizen, arecorrelative terms. Hume.
correlatively: In a correlative relation.
correlativeness: Quality of being correlative.
correligionist: A co-religion
correption: Chiding; reproof; reproach. [Obs.]Angry, passionate correption being rather apt to provoke, than toamend. Hammond.
correspondence school: A school that teaches by correspondence, the instruction beingbased on printed instruction sheets and the recitation papers writtenby the student in answer to the questions or requirements of thesesheets. In the broadest sense of the term correspondence school maybe used to include any educational institution or department forinstruction by correspondence, as in a university or othereducational bodies, but the term is commonly applied to variouseducational institutions organized on a commercial basis, some ofwhich offer a large variety of courses in general and technicalsubjects, conducted by specialists.
correspondency: Same as Correspondence, 3.The correspondencies of types and antitypes . . . may be veryreasonable confirmations. S. Clarke.
correspondent: Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable;in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.Action correspondent or repugnant unto the law. Hooker.As fast the correspondent passions rise. Thomson.I will be correspondent to command. Shak.
correspondently: In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.
correspondingly: In a corresponding manner; conformably.
corresponsive: Corresponding; conformable; adapted. Shak.-- Cor`re*spon"sive*ly, adv.
corridor: A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of ahouse.
corridor train: A train whose coaches are connected so as to have through itsentire length a continuous corridor, into which the compartmentsopen. [Eng.]
corrie: Same as Correi. [Scot.] Geikie.
corrigendum: A fault or error to be corrected.
corrigent: A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify itsaction. Dunglison.
corrigibility: Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected;corrigibleness.
corrigibleness: The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.
corrival: A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion. [R.]Shak.
corrivalry: Corivalry. [R.]
corrivalship: Corivalry. [R.]By the corrivalship of Shager his false friend. Sir T. Herbert.
corrivate: To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.[Obs.] Burton.
corrivation: The flowing of different streams into one. [Obs.] Burton.
corroborant: Strengthening; supporting; corroborating. Bacon.-- n.
corroborate: Corroborated. [Obs.] Bacon.
corroborative: Tending to strengthen of confirm.
corroboratory: Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.
corrobory: See Corroboree.
corrode: To have corrosive action; to be subject to corrosion. Corrodinglead, lead sufficiently pure to be used in making white lead by aprocess of corroding.
corrodent: Corrosive. [R.] Bp. King.
corrodiate: To eat away by degrees; to corrode. [Obs.] Sandys.
corrodibility: The qualityof being corrodible. [R.] Johnson.
corrodible: Capable of being corroded; corrosible. Sir T. Browne.
corrosibility: Corrodibility. "Corrosibility . . . answers corrosiveness."Boyle.
corrosible: Corrodible. Bailey.
corrosibleness: The quality or state of being corrosible. Bailey.
corrosion: The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process ofcorrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion.Corrosion is a particular species of dissolution of bodies, either byan acid or a saline menstruum. John Quincy.
corroval: A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare,and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison.
corrovaline: A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterizedby its immediate action in paralyzing the heart.
corrugant: Having the power of contracting into wrinkles. Johnson.
corrugate: Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges andfurrows.
corrugation: The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternateridges and grooves.
corrugator: A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead intowrinkles.
corrugent: Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.[Obs.]
corrump: To corrupt. See Corrupt. [Obs.] Chauser.
corrumpable: Corruptible. [Obs.]
corrupter: One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupterof morals.
corruptful: Tending to corrupt; full of corruption. [Obs.] "Corruptfulbribes." Spenser.
corruptibility: The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liabilityof being corrupted; corruptibleness. Burke.
corruptible: That which may decay and perish; the human body. [Archaic] 1Cor. xv. 53.
corruptingly: In a manner that corrupts.
corruptionist: One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption. Sydney Smith.
corruptive: Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to producecorruption.It should be endued with some corruptive quality for so speedy adissolution of the meat. Ray.
corruptless: Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible. Dryden.
corruptly: In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corruptinginfluences; wronfully.
corruptness: The quality of being corrupt.
corruptress: A woman who corrupts.Thou studied old corruptress. Beau & Fl.
corsac: The corsak.
corsage: The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as. a low corsage.
corsak: A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in CentralAsia. [Written also corsac.]
corselet: The thorax of an insect.
corsepresent: An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body.Blackstone.
corset: To inclose in corsets.
corslet: A corselet. [Obs.] Hakluyt.
corsned: The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in theeating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation. If thesuspected person ate it freely, he was pronounced innocent; but if itstuck in his throat, it was considered as a proof of his guilt.Burril.
cortege: A train of attendants; a procession.
cortes: The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, andrepresentatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, insome measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.
cortes geraes: See Legislature, Portugal.
cortex: Bark; rind; specifically, cinchona bark.
cortical: Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling barkor rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance ofthe kidney.
corticifer: One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy partsurrounds a solid axis, like a bark.
corticiferous: Having a barklike c
corticiform: Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind.
corticine: A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground corkand caoutchouc or India rubber.
corticose: Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky.
corticous: Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose.
cortile: An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a largedwelling house or other large and stately building.
corundum: The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state,including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the orientalruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; andadamantine spar, the hair-brown variety. It is the hardest substancefound native, next to the diamond.
coruscant: Glittering in flashes; flashing. Howell.
coruscate: To glitter in flashes; to flash.
corve: See Corf.
corvee: An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair ofroads, for the lord or sovereign.
corven: p. p. of Carve. Chaucer.
corvetto: A curvet. Peacham.
corvine: Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike.
corvorant: See Cormorant.
corybant: One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia. The rites of theCorybants were accompanied by wild music, dancing, etc.
corybantiasm: A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantasticvisions and want of sleep. Dunglison.
corybantic: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or theirrites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.
corymbed: Corymbose.
corymbiferous: Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit.
corymbose: Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form. [Writtenalso corymbous.]
corymbosely: In corymbs.
coryphaenoid: Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin.
coryphee: A ballet dancer.
coryphene: A fish of the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin. (2)
corypheus: The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence,the chief or leader of a party or interest.That noted corypheus [Dr. John Owen] of the Independent faction.South.
coryphodon: A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europeand America. Its species varied in size between the tapir andrhinoceros, and were allied to those animals, but had short,plantigrade, five-toed feet, like the elephant.
coryphodont: Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon.
coryza: Nasal catarrh.
coscinomancy: Divination by means of a suspended sieve.
coscoroba: A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba,resembling a swan.
cosecant: The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. ofFunctions.
cosen: See Cozen.
cosenage: See Cozenage.
cosening: Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properlydesignated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts ornot. Burrill.
cosentient: Perceiving together.
cosey: See Cozy. Dickens.
cosher: To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat atthe expense of. See Coshering.
cosherer: One who coshers.
coshering: A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him tolodging and food at his tenant's house. Burrill.Sometimes he contrived, in deflance of the law, to live by coshering,that is to say, by quartering himself on the old tentants of hisfamily, who, wretched as was their own condition, could not refuse aportion of their pittance to one whom they still regarded as theirrightful lord. Macaulay.
cosier: A tailor who botches his work. [Obs.] Shak.
cosignificative: Having the same signification. Cockerham.
cosignitary: Signing some important public document with another or withothers; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers.
cosily: See Cozily.
cosine: The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. ofFunctions.
cosmetic: Any external application intended to beautify and improve thecomplexion.
cosmically: Belonging to cosmogony. B. Powell. Gladstone.
cosmogonist: One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed incosmogony.
cosmogony: The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account ofsuch creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogoniesof Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato.The cosmogony or creation of the world has puzzled philosophers ofall ages. Goldsmith.
cosmographer: One who describes the world or universe, including the heavensand the earth.The name of this island is nowhere found among the old and ancientcosmographers. Robynson (More's Utopia).
cosmographically: In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography.
cosmography: A description of the world or of the universe; or the sciencewhich teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or thefigure, disposition, and relation of all its parts.
cosmolabe: An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used formeasuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called alsopantacosm.
cosmolatry: Worship paid to the world. Cudworth.
cosmoline: A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation ofpetroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stifferconsistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; akind of petroleum jelly.
cosmological: Of or pertaining to cosmology.
cosmologist: One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology.
cosmology: The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating tothe structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements ofbodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion, andthe order and course of nature.
cosmometry: The art of measuring the world or the universe. Blount.
cosmoplastic: Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation ofthe world independently of God; world-forming. "Cosmoplastic andhylozoic atheisms." Gudworth.
cosmopolitanism: The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism.
cosmopolite: See Cosmopolitan.
cosmopolitical: Having the character of a cosmopolite. [R.] Hackluyt.
cosmopolitism: The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard ofnational or local peculiarities and prejudices.
cosmorama: An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts ofthe world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses,with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closelyrepresent reality.
cosmoramic: Of or pertaining to a cosmorama.
cosmosphere: An apparattus for showing the position of the earth, at anygiven time, with respect to the fixed stars. It consist of a hollowglass globe, on which are depicted the stars and constellations, andwithin which is a terrestrial globe.
cosmotheism: Same as Pantheism. [R.]
cosmothetic: Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of thephysical or external world. Cosmothetic idealists (Metaph.), thosewho assume, without attempting to prove, the reality of externalobjects as corresponding to, and being the ground of, the ideas ofwhich only the mind has direct cognizance.The cosmothetic idealists . . . deny that mind is immediatelyconscious of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.
cosovereign: A joint sovereign.
coss: A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half totwo English miles. Whitworth.
cossack: One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen,inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishingvaluable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies, those ofLittle Russia and those of the Don forming the principal divisions.
cossack post: An outpost consisting of four men, forming one of a single lineof posts substituted for the more formal line of sentinels and lineof pickets.
cossas: Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths.
cosset: A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence
cossette: One of the small chips or slices into which beets are cut insugar making.
cost: See Cottise.
costa: A rib of an animal or a human being.
costage: Expense; cost. [Obs.] Chaucer.
costal: Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costalnerves.
costal-nerved: Having the nerves spring from the midrib.
costardmonger: A costermonger.
costean: To search after lodes. See Costeaning.
costeaning: The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes. Itconsist in sinking small pits through the superficial deposits to thesolid rock, and then driving from one pit to another across thedirection of the vein, in such manner as to cross all the veinsbetween the two pits.
costellate: Finely ribbed or costated.
coster: One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc.
costermonger: An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruitor vegetables; a fruiterer. [Written also costardmonger.]
costiferous: Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebræ.
costively: In a costive manner.
costless: Costing nothing.
costlewe: Costly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
costliness: The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness.
costmary: A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strongbalsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy. It is used as a pot herband salad plant and in flavoring ale and beer. Called also alecost.
coston lights: Signals made by burning lights of different colors and used byvessels at sea, and in the life-saving service; -- named after theirinventor.
costotome: An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open thethoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections. Knight.
costrel: A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by whichit was suspended at the side. [Archaic]A youth, that, following with a costrel, bore The means of goodlywelcome, flesh and wine. Tennyson.
costumer: One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancyballs, etc.
cosupreme: A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme. Shak.
cosurety: One who is surety with another.
cosy: See Cozy.
cot: A small, rudely-formed boat. Bell cot. (Arch.) See under Bell.
cotangent: The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust.of Functions.
cotarnine: A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as aproduct of the decomposition of narcotine. It has weak basicproperties, and is usually regarded as an alkaloid.
cote: To go side by side with; hence, to pass by; to outrun and getbefore; as, a dog cotes a hare. [Obs.] Drayton.We coted them on the way, and hither are they coming. Shak.
cotemporaneous: Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous.-- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Co*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness, n.
cotemporary: Living or being at the same time; contemporary.
cotenant: A tenant in common, or a joint tenant.
coterie: A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social,literary, or other purposes; a clique. "The queen of your coterie."Thackeray.
coterminous: Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with.
cotgare: Refuse wool. [Obs. or Prov.]
cothurn: A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence,tragedy in general.The moment had arrived when it was thought that the mask and thecothurn might be assumed with effect. Motley.
cothurnus: Same as Cothurn.
coticular: Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones.
cotidal: Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the sametime. Cotidal lines (Phys. Geog.), lines on a map passing throughplaces that have high tide at the same time.
cotinga: A bird of the family Cotingidæ, including numerous bright-colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.
cotise: See Cottise.
cotised: See Cottised.
cotland: Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager orcotter.
cotqueanity: The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean. [Obs.] B.Jonson.
cotrustee: A joint trustee.
cotswold: An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswoldhills, in Gloucestershire, England. Cotswold sheep, a long-wooledbreed of sheep, formerly common in the counties of Gloucester,Hereford, and Worcester, Eng.; -- so called from the Cotswold Hills.The breed is now chiefly amalgamated with others.
cotta: A surplice, in England and America usually one shorter and lessfull than the ordinary surplice and with short sleeves, or sometimesnone.
cottage: A small house; a cot; a hut.
cottaged: Set or covered with cottages.Even humble Harting's cottaged vale. Collins.
cottagely: Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
cottager: One who lives on the common, without paying any rent, or havingland of his own.
cotter: To fasten with a cotter.
cottier: In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a smallcottage, with or without a plot of land. Cottiers commonly aid in thework of the landlord's farm. [Written also cottar and cotter.]
cottise: A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area orone quarter the area of the bend. When a single cottise is used aloneit is often called a cost. See also Couple-close.
cottised: Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between twobarrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.
cottoid: Like a fish of the genus Cottus.-- n.
cottolene: A product from cottonseed, used as lard.
cotton batting: Cotton prepared in sheets or rolls for quilting, upholstering,and similar purposes.
cotton state: Alabama; -- a nickname.
cottonade: A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton.
cottonary: Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony. [Obs.]Cottomary and woolly pillows. Sir T. Browne.
cottonous: Resembling cotton. [R.] Evelyn.
cottonseed meal: A meal made from hulled cotton seeds after the oil has beenexpressed.
cottonseed oil: A fixed, semidrying oil extracted from cottonseed. It is paleyellow when pure (sp. gr., .92-.93). and is extensively used in soapmaking, in cookery, and as an adulterant of other oils.
cottontail: The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also calledMolly cottontail.
cottonweed: See Cudweed.
cottonwood: An American tree of the genus Populus or polar, having theseeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. moniliferaand P. angustifolia of the Western United States.
cottrel: A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire. Knight.
cotyledon: One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.
cotyledonal: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon.
cotyledonary: Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta ofthe cow.
cotyledonous: Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seedlobe.
cotyliform: Shaped like a cotyle or a cup.
cotyligerous: Having cotyles.
coucal: A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, ofseveral species.
couch: To transfer (as sheets of partly dried pulp) from the wireclotch mold to a felt blanket, for further drying.
couch grass: See Quitch grass.
couchancy: State of lying down for repose. [R.]
couchant: Lying down with the head raised, which distinguishes theposture of couchant from that of dormant, or sleeping; -- said of alion or other beast. Couchant and levant (Law), rising up and lyingdown; -- said of beasts, and indicating that they have been longenough on land, not belonging to their owner, to lie down and rise upto feed, -- such time being held to include a day and night at theleast. Blackstone.
couched: Same as Couch.
couchee: A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereignor great prince. [Obs.] Dryden.The duke's levees and couchees were so crowded that the antechamberswere full. Bp. Burnet.
coucher: One who couches paper.
couching: The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens incataract.
couchless: Having no couch or bed.
coudee: A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end ofthe middle finger; a cubit.
cougar: An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling theAfrican panther in size and habits. Its color is tawny, withoutspots; hence writers often called it the American lion. Called alsopuma, panther, mountain lion, and catamount. See Puma.
cough: To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from thelungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner.
cougher: One who coughs.
couhage: See Cowhage.
could: Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible.Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditionalpresent.
coulee: A stream; (Geol.)
couloir: A dredging machine for excavating canals, etc.
coulomb: The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements. It isthe quantity of electricity conveyed in one second by the currentproduced by an electro-motive force of one volt acting in a circuithaving a resistance of one ohm, or the quantitty transferred by oneampère in one second. Formerly called weber.
coulomb meter: Any instrument by which electricity can be measured incoulombs.
coulter: Same as Colter.
coulterneb: The puffin.
coulure: A disease affecting grapes, esp. in California, manifested bythe premature dropping of the fruit.
coumaric: Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, atree of Guiana. Coumaric acid (Chem.), one of a series of aromaticacids, related to cinnamic acid, the most important of which is awhite crystalline substance, HO.C6H4.C2H2.CO2H, obtained from thetonka bean, sweet clover, etc., and also produced artifically.
coumarin: The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix(formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarinproper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla-like odor, regarded as an anhydride of coumaric acid, and used inflavoring. Coumarin in also made artificially.
coumarou: The tree (Dipteryx odorata) which bears the tonka bean; also,the bean itself.
councilist: One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion. [Obs.]I will in three months be an expert counsilist. Milton.
councilman: A member of a council, especially of the common council of acity; a councilor.
councilor: A member of a council. [Written also councillor.]
counselorship: The function and rank or office of a counselor. Bacon.
count: To plead orally; to argue a matter in court; to recite a count.Burrill.
count-wheel: The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes.
countable: Capable of being numbered.
countenancer: One who countenances, favors, or supports.
counter: A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as,counteract, counterbalance, countercheck. See Counter, adv. & a.
counter brace: The brace of the fore-topsail on the leeward side of a vessel.
counter tenor: One of the middle parts in music, between the tenor and thetreble; high tenor. Counter-tenor clef (Mus.), the C clef when placedon the third line; -- also called alto clef.
counter weight: A counterpoise.
counter-compony: See Compony.
counter-couchant: Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said ofanimals borne in a coat of arms.
counter-courant: Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in acoast of arms.
counter-paly: Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece iscut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged.Thus the escutcheon in the illustration may also be blazoned paly ofsix per fess counterchanged argent and azure.
counter-roll: A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as acheck upon another officer's roll. Burrill.
counter-salient: Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast ofarms.
counteract: To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, bycontrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect ofmedicines; to counteract good advice.
counteraction: Action in opposition; hindrance resistance.[They] do not . . . overcome the counteraction of a false principleor of stubborn partiality. Johnson.
counteractive: Tending to counteract.
counteractively: By counteraction.
counterbalance: To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract thepower or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance.The remaining air was not able to counterbalance the mercurialcylinder. Boyle.The cstudy of mind is necessary to counterbalance and correct theinfluence of the study of nature. Sir W. Hamilton.
counterbore: To form a counterbore in, by boring, turning, or drilling; toenlarge, as a hole, by means of a counterbore.
counterbrace: To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards,i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.
counterbuff: To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop bya blow or impulse in front. Dryden.
countercast: A trick; a delusive contrivance. [Obs.] Spenser.
countercaster: A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- usedconteptuously.
counterchange: Exchange; reciprocation.
counterchanged: Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field isdivided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged,that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or, andthat on the or side will be azure.
countercharge: An opposing charge.
countercharm: To destroy the effect of a charm upon.
countercheck: To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a returncheck.
counterclaim: A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.
countercurrent: Running in an opposite direction.
counterdraw: To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil onoiled paper, or other transparent substance.
counterfaisance: See Counterfesance. [Obs.]
counterfeitly: By forgery; falsely.
counterfesance: The act of forging; forgery. [Obs.] [Written alsocounterfaisance.]
counterfleury: Counterflory.
counterflory: Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided thatthe tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said ofany ordinary.
counterforce: An opposing force.
counterfort: A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.
countergage: An adjustable gage, with double points for transferringmeasurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortiseto the place where the tenon is to be made. Knight.
counterglow: An exceedingly faint roundish or somewhat oblong nebulous lightnear the ecliptic and opposite the sun, best seen during Septemberand October, when in the constellations Sagittarius and Pisces. Itscause is not yet understood. Called also Gegenschein.
counterguard: A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of twolines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protectingthem from a breaching fire.
counterirritate: To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbidprocess for the purpose of curing another.
counterjumper: A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemtuously. [Slang]
counterman: A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods.[Eng.]
countermand: A contrary order; revocation of a former order or command.Have you no countermand for Claudio yet, But he must die to-morrowShak.
countermandable: Capable of being countermanded; revocable. Bacon.
countermarch: To march back, or to march in reversed order.The two armies marched and countermarched, drew near and receded.Macaulay.
countermark: An artificial cavity made in the teeth of horses that haveoutgrown their natural mark, to disguise their age.
countermine: An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy themining of an enemy.
countermove: To move in a contrary direction to.
countermure: A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breachedor destroyed. [R.] Cf. Contramure. Knolles.
counternatural: Contrary to nature. [R.] Harvey.
counterpane: A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven insquares or figures.On which a tissue counterpane was cast. Drayton.
counterpart: One of two corresponding copies of an instrument; a duplicate.
counterpassant: Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals.
counterplead: To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny.
counterplot: To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt tofrustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.Every wile had proved abortive, every plot had been counterplotted.De Quinsey.
counterpoint: An opposite point [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
counterpole: The exact opposite.The German prose offers the counterpole to the French style. DeQuincey.
counterponderate: TO equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate.
counterprove: To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking animpression directly from the face of an original. See Counter proof,under Counter.
counterrolment: A counter account. See Control. [Obs.] Bacon.
counterscale: Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another.[Obs.] Howell.
counterscarf: The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, thewhole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as,the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp.
counterseal: To seal or ratify with another or others. Shak.
countersecure: To give additional security to or for. Burke.
countershaft: An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from aline shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine.
countersign: To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing);hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal orsuperior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.
counterstand: Resistance; opposition; a stand against.Making counterstand to Robert Guiscard. Longfellow.
counterstep: A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action.
counterstock: See Counterfoil.
counterstroke: A stroke or blow in return. Spenser.
countersway: A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence.[Obs.]A countersway of restraint, curbing their wild exorbitance. Milton.
counterterm: A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to,another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, "foe" is thecounterterm of "friend". C. J. Smith.
countertime: The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and themeasure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the badtemper of the horse.
countertrippant: Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant.
countertripping: Same as Countertrippant.
counterturn: The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation,the action is embroiled in new difficulties. Dryden.
countervail: To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart orovercome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; tocounterbalance; to compensate.Upon balancing the account, the profit at last will hardlycountervail the inconveniences that go allong with it. L'Estrange.
countervallation: See Contravallation.
countervote: To vote in opposition ti; to balance or overcome by viting; tooutvote. Dr. J. Scott.
counterwait: To wait or watch for; to be on guard against. [Obs.] Chaucer.
counterweigh: To weigh against; to counterbalance.
counterwheel: To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction.
counterwork: To work in oppositeion to; to counteract.That counterworksh folly and caprice. Pope.
countess: The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count inthe Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignityin her own right. See the Note under Count.
countless: Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.
countor: An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for hisclient, that is, orally pleaded his cause. [Obs.] Burrill.
countre-: Same as prefix Counter-. [Obs.]
countreplete: To counterplead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
countretaille: A counter tally; correspondence (in sound). [Obs.] At thecountretaille, in return. Chaucer.
countrified: Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude.As being one who took no pride, And was a deal too countrified.Lloyd.
countrify: To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic. Lamb.
country: The rock through which a vein runs. Conclusion to the country.See under Conclusion.-- To put, or throw, one's self upon the country, to appeal to one'sconstituents; to stand trial before a jury.
country bank: A national bank not in a reserve city. [Colloq., U. S.]
country club: A club usually located in the suburbs or vicinity of a city ortown and devoted mainly to outdoor sports.
country cousin: A relative from the country visiting the city and unfamiliarwith city manners and sights.
country seat: A dwelling in the country, used as a place of retirement fromthe city.
country-base: Same as Prison base.
country-dance: See Contradance.He had introduced the English country-dance to the knowledge of theDutch ladies. Macualay.
countryside: A particular rural district; a country neighborhood. [Eng.] W.Black. Blackmore.
countrywoman: A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to thecity; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with anothernative or inhabitant. Shak.
coup: A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a termused in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force. Coupde grace (ke gr Etym
coupable: Culpable. [Obs.]
coupe-gorge: Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troopsoccupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces. Farrow.
couped: Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- usedespecially for the head or limb of an animal. See Erased.
coupee: A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raisedfrom the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made.Chambers.
couple: See Couple-close.
couple-beggar: One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other.Swift.
couple-close: A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of itssurface. Couple-closes are generally borne one on each side of achevron, and the blazoning may then be either a chevron between twocouple-closes or chevron cottised.
couplement: Union; combination; a coupling; a pair. [Obs.] Shak.And forth together rode, a goodly couplement. Spenser.
coupler: One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, orshackle, to connect cars. Coupler of an organ, a contrivance by whichany two or more of the ranks of keys, or keys and pedals, areconnected so as to act together when the organ is played.
couplet: Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines ofverse that rhyme with each other.A sudden couplet rushes on your mind. Crabbe.
coupling: A device or contrivance which serves to couple or connectadjacent parts or objects; as, a belt coupling, which connects theends of a belt; a car coupling, which connects the cars in a train; ashaft coupling, which connects the ends of shafts. Box coupling,Chain coupling. See under Box, Chain.-- Coupling box, a coupling shaped like a journal box, for clampingtogether the ends of two shafts, so that they may revolve together.-- Coupling pin, a pin or bolt used in coupling or joining togetherrailroad cars, etc.
coupon: A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom oftransferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term ofyears, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when theinterest is due; an interest warrant.
coupstick: A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making orcounting a coup.
coupure: A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by thebesieged. Wilhelm.
courage: To inspire with courage. [Obs.]Paul writeth unto Timothy . . . to courage him. Tyndale.
courageous: Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.With this victory, the women became most courageous and proud, andthe men waxed . . . fearful and desperate. Stow.
courageously: In a courageous manner.
courageousness: The quality of being courageous; courage.
courant: Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat ofarms.
couranto: A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant.
courap: A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetualitching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face.
courb: Curved; rounded. [Obs.]Her neck is short, her shoulders courb. Gower.
courbaril: See Animé, n.
courche: A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of acap; a kerchief. [Scot.] [Written also curch.] Jamieson.
courlan: A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to therails.
course: A continuous level range of brick or stones of the same heightthroughout the face or faces of a building. Gwilt.
courser: A grallatorial bird of Europe (Cursorius cursor), remarkablefor its speed in running. Sometimes, in a wider sense, applied torunning birds of the Ostrich family.
coursey: A space in the galley; a part of the hatches. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
coursing: The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sightinstead of by scent.In coursing of a deer, or hart, with greyhounds. Bacon
court tennis: See under Tennis.
court-baron: An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor,and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse.
court-craft: The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.
court-cupboard: A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and otherarticles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions. [Obs.]A way with the joint stools, remove the court-cupboard, look to theplate. Shak.
court-leet: A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred,lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet. Blackstone.
court-martial: A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trialof one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against militaryor naval law.
court-plaster: Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one sidewith some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass andglycerin.
courtbred: Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.
courtelle: a wool-like fabric.[WordNet 1.5]
courteous: Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or exxpressive of,courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred;polite; affable; complaisant.A patient and courteous bearing. Prescott.His behavior toward his people is grave and courteous. Fuller.
courteously: In a courteous manner.
courteousness: The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy.
courtepy: A short coat of coarse cloth. [Obs.]Full threadbare was his overeste courtepy. Chaucer.
courter: One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits inmarriage; one who flatters and cajoles. Sherwood.
courtesan: A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; aharlot.Lasciviously decked like a courtesan. Sir H. Wotton.
courtesanship: Harlotry.
courtesy: An act of civility, respect, or reverence, made by women,consisting of a slight depression or dropping of the body, withbending of the kness. [Written also curtsy.]The lady drops a courtesy in token of obedience, and the ceremonyproceeds as usual. Golgsmith.
courtiery: The manners of a courtier; courtliness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
courtlike: After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly.
courtliness: The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners.
courtling: A sycophantic courtier. B. Jonson.
courtly: In the manner of courts; politely; gracefully; elegantly.They can produce nothing so courtly writ. Dryden
courtyard: A court or inclosure attached to a house.
couscous: A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made ofmillet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called alsolalo.
couscousou: A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous.
cousin: Allied; akin. [Obs.] Chaucer.
cousin-german: A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1.
cousinage: Relationship; kinship. [Obs.] Wyclif.
cousinhood: The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective bodyof cousins; kinsfolk.
cousinly: Like or becoming a cousin.
cousinry: A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of personswho stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons.
cousinship: The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins;cousinhood. G. Eliot.
couteau: A knife; a dagger.
couth: Could; was able; knew or known; understood. [Obs.]Above all other one Daniel He loveth, for he couth well Divine, thatnone other couth; To him were all thing couth, As he had it of God'sgrace. Gower.
couvade: A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a womangives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.The world-wide custom of the couvade, where at childbirth the husbandundergoes medical treatment, in many cases being put to bed for days.Tylor.
couveuse: An incubator for sickly infants, esp. those prematurely born.
covariant: A function involving the coefficients and the variables of aquantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed thesame function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal tothe old function multiplied by a factor. An invariant is a likefunction involving only the coefficients of the quantic.
cove: To arch over; to build in a hollow concave form; to make in theform of a cove.The mosques and other buildings of the Arabians are rounded intodomes and coved roofs. H. Swinburne.Coved ceiling, a ceiling, the part of which next the wail isconstructed in a cove.-- Coved vault, a vault composed of four coves meeting in a centralpoint, and therefore the reverse of a groined vault.
covenable: Fit; proper; suitable. [Obs.] "A covenable day." Wyclif (Markvi. 21).
covenably: Fitly; suitably. [Obs.] "Well and covenably." Chaucer.
covenant: An agreement made by the Scottish Parliament in 1638, and bythe English Parliament in 1643, to preserve the reformed religion inScotland, and to extirpate popery and prelacy; -- usually called the"Solemn League and Covenant."He [Wharton] was born in the days of the Covenant, and was the heirof a covenanted house. Macualay.
covenantee: The person in whose favor a covenant is made.
covenanter: One who subscribed and defended the "Solemn League andCovenant." See Covenant.
covenanting: Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the ScotchCovenanters.Be they covenanting traitors, Or the brood of false Argyle Aytoun.
covenantor: The party who makes a covenant. Burrill.
covenous: See Covinous, and Covin.
covent: A convent or monastery. [Obs.] Bale. Covent Garden, a largesquare in London, so called because originally it was the garden of amonastery.
coventry: A town in the county of Warwick, England. To send to Coventry,to exclude from society; to shut out from social intercourse, as forungentlemanly conduct.-- Coventry blue, blue thread of a superior dye, made at Coventry,England, and used for embroidery.
cover: The woods, underbrush, etc., which shelter and conceal game;covert; as, to beat a cover; to ride to cover.
cover crop: A catch crop planted, esp. in orchards. as a protection to thesoil in winter, as well as for the benefit of the soil when plowedunder in spring.
cover-point: The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports"point."
cover-shame: Something used to conceal infamy. [Obs.] Dryden.
coverage: The aggregate of risks covered by the terms of a contract ofinsurance.
coverchief: A covering for the head. [Obs.] Chaucer.
covercle: A small cover; a lid. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
covered: Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden. Coveredway (Fort.), a corridor or banquette along the top of thecounterscarp and covered by an embankment whose slope forms theglacis. It gives the garrisonn an open line of communication aroundthe works, and a standing place beyond the ditch. See Illust. ofRavelin.
coverer: One who, or that which, covers.
covering: Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, awrapper, clothing, etc.Noah removed the covering of the ark. Gen. viii. 13.They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have nocovering in the cold. Job. xxiv. 7.A covering over the well's mouth. 2 Sam. xvii. 19.
coverlet: The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture.Lay her in lilies and in violets . . . And odored sheets and arrascoverlets. Spenser.
coverlid: A coverlet.All the coverlid was clocth of gold. Tennyson.
coversed sine: The versed sine of the complement of an arc or angle. SeeIllust. of Functions.
coverside: A region of country having covers; a hunting country.
covert: Under cover, authority or protection; as, a feme covert, amarried woman who is considered as being under the protection andcontrol of her husband. Covert way, (Fort.) See Covered way, underCovered.
covert baron: Under the protection of a husband; married. Burrill.
covertly: Secretly; in private; insidiously.
covertness: Secrecy; privacy. [R.]
coverture: The condition of a woman during marriage, because she isconsidered under the cover, influence, power, and protection of herhusband, and therefore called a feme covert, or femme couverte.
covet: To have or indulge inordinate desire.Which [money] while some coveted after, they have erred from thefaith. 1 Tim. vi. 10.
covetable: That may be coveted; desirable.
coveter: One who covets.
covetise: Avarice. [Obs.] Spenser.
covetiveness: Acquisitiveness.
covetously: In a covetous manner.
covey: To brood; to incubate. [Obs.][Tortoises] covey a whole year before they hatch. Holland.
covin: A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudicea third.
covinous: Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest.
cow: A chimney cap; a cowl
cow parsley: An umbelliferous plant of the genus Chærophyllum (C. temulumand C. sylvestre).
cow parsnip: A coarse umbelliferous weed of the genus Heracleum (H.sphondylium in England, and H. lanatum in America).
cow tree: A tree (Galactodendron utile or Brosimum Galactodendron) ofSouth America, which yields, on incision, a nourishing fluid,resembling milk.
cow-pilot: A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the WestIndies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra.
cowage: See Cowhage.
cowalker: A phantasmic or "astral" body deemed to be separable from thephysical body and capable of acting independently; a doppelgänger.
cowan: One who works as a mason without having served a regularapprenticeship. [Scot.]
coward: Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs;-- said of a lion.
cowardice: Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity;pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit.The cowardice of doing wrong. Milton.Moderation was despised as cowardice. Macualay.
cowardie: Cowardice. [Obs.]
cowardish: Cowardly. [Obs.] " A base and a cowardish mind." Robynson(More's Utopia).
cowardize: To render cowardly. [Obs.]God . . . cowardizeth . . . insolent spirits. Bp. Hall.
cowardliness: Cowardice.
cowardly: In the manner of a coward. Spenser.
cowardship: Cowardice. [Obs.] Shak.
cowbane: A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa;in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida.See Water hemlock.
cowberry: A species of Vaccinium (V. Vitis-id), which bears acid redberries which are sometimes used in cookery; -- locally calledmountain cranberry.
cowbird: The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling. Likethe European cuckoo, it builds no nest, but lays its eggs in thenests of other birds; -- so called because frequently associated withcattle.
cowblakes: Dried cow dung used as fuel.[Prov. Eng.] Simmonds.
cowcatcher: A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in frontof a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions ona railway, as cattle; the pilot. [U.S.]
cowdie: See Kauri.
cower: To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, toquail; to sink through fear.Our dame sits cowering o'er a kitchen fire. Dryden.Like falcons, cowering on the nest. Goldsmith.
cowhage: A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crookedpods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causingintolerable itching. The spiculæ are sometimes used in medicine as amechanical vermifuge. [Written also couhage, cowage, and cowitch.]
cowhearted: Cowardly.The Lady Powis . . . patted him with her fan, and called him acowhearted fellow. R. North.
cowherd: One whose occupation is to tend cows.
cowhide: To flog with a cowhide.
cowish: Timorous; fearful; cowardly. [R.] Shak.
cowitch: See Cowhage.
cowl: A vessel carried on a pole between two persons, for conveyanceof water. Johnson.
cowled: Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk. "That cowledchurchman." Emerson.
cowleech: One who heals disease of cows; a cow doctor.
cowleeching: Healing the distemper of cows.
cowlick: A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead),as if licked by a cow.
cowlike: Resembling a cow.With cowlike udders and with oxlike eyes. Pope.
cowlstaff: A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between twopersons. Suckling.
coworker: One who works with another; a co
cowpea: The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genusDolichos; also, the plant itself. Many varieties are cultivated inthe southern part of the United States.
cowpock: See Cowpox. Dunglison.
cowpox: A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, whencommunicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects fromthe smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, andkinepock. Dunglison.
cowquake: A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass.
cowrie: Same as Kauri.
cowslipped: Adorned with cowslips. "Cowslipped lawns." Keats.
cowweed: Same as Cow parsley.
cowwheat: A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found onEuropean wheatfields.
cox: A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull. [Obs.]Go; you're a brainless cox, a toy, a fop. Beau. & Fl.
coxa: The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.
coxcomb: A name given to several plants of different genera, butparticularly to Celosia cristata, or garden cockscomb. Same asCockscomb.
coxcombical: Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish;conceited.-- Cox*comb"ic*al*ly, adv.Studded all over in coxcombical fashion with little brass nails. W.Irving.
coxcombly: like a coxcomb. [Obs.] "You coxcombly ass, you!" Beau & Fl.
coxcombry: The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness.
coxcomical: Coxcombical. [R.]
coxcomically: Conceitedly. [R.]
coxswain: See Cockswain.
coyish: Somewhat coy or reserved. Warner.
coyly: In a coy manner; with reserve.
coyness: The quality of being coy; feigned oWhen the kind nymph would coyness feign, And hides but to be foundagain. Dryden.
coyote: A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, foundin the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf.Its voice is a snapping bark, followed by a prolonged, shrill howl.
coyote state: South Dakota; -- a nickname.
coyotillo: A low rhamnaceous shrub (Karwinskia humboldtiana) of thesouthwestern United States and Mexico. Its berries are said to bepoisonous to the coyote.
coypu: A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to thebeaver. It produces a valuable fur called nutria. [Written alsocoypou.]
coystrel: Same as Coistril.
coz: A contraction of cousin. Shak.
cozen: To cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by smallarts, or in a pitiful way.He had cozened the world by fine phrases. Macualay.Children may be cozened into a knowledge of the letters. Locke.Goring loved no man so well but that he would cozen him, and exposehim to public mirth for having been cozened. Clarendon.
cozenage: The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud. Shak.
cozener: One who cheats or defrauds.
cozier: See Cosier.
cozily: Snugly; comfortably.
coziness: The state or quality of being cozy.
cozy: Chatty; talkative; sociable; familiar. [Eng.]
crab: One of the brachyuran Crustacea. They are mostly marine, andusually have a broad, short body, covered with a strong shell orcarapace. The abdomen is small and curled up beneath the body.
crab tree: See under Crab.
crab-yaws: A disease in the West Indies. It is a kind of ulcer on thesoles of the feet, with very hard edges. See Yaws. Dunglison.
crabber: One who catches crabs.
crabbing: The foghting of hawks with each other.
crabbish: Somewhat sour or cross.The wips of the most crabbish Satyristes. Decker.
crabby: Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing. "Persius is crabby, becauseancient." Marston.
craber: The water rat. Walton.
crabfaced: Having a sour, disagreeable countenance. Beau & Fl.
crabsidle: To move sidewise, as a crab. [Jocular]. Southey.
crabstick: A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the carb tree.
crache: To scratch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
crack: Of superior excellence; having qualities to be boasted of.[Colloq.]One of our crack speakers in the Commons. Dickens.
crack-brained: Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy. Pope.
crackajack: Of marked ability or excellence. [Slang]
cracker: The pintail duck.
cracker state: Georgia; -- a nickname. See Cracker, n. 5.
crackle: To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises,rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thornscrackle.The unknown ice that crackles underneath them. Dryden.
crackled: Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kindsof porcelain and fine earthenware.
crackleware: See Crackle, n., 3.
crackling: Food for dogs, made from the refuse of tallow melting.
cracknel: A hard brittle cake or biscuit. Spenser.
cracksman: A burglar. [Slang]
cracovian: Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland.
cracovienne: A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time.
cracowes: Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe;-- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn inthe fourteenth century. Fairholt.
cradle: An implement consisting of a broad scythe for cutting grain,with a set of long fingers parallel to the scythe, designed toreceive the grain, and to lay it eventlyin a swath.
cradleland: Land or region where one was cradled; hence, land of origin.
cradling: Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to passa narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.
craft: A vessel; vessels of any kind; -- generally used in acollective sense.The evolutions of the numerous tiny craft moving over the lake. Prof.Wilson.Small crafts, small vessels, as sloops, schooners, ets.
crafter: a creator of great skill in the manual arts.Syn. -- craftsman.[WordNet 1.5]
craftily: With craft; artfully; cunningly.
craftiness: Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning;artifice; stratagem.He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. Job. v. 13.
craftless: Without craft or cunning.Helpless, craftless, and innocent people. Jer. Taylor.
craftsman: One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; amechanic.
craftsmanship: The work of a craftsman.
craftsmaster: One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning.In cunning persuasion his craftsmaster. Holland.
crag: A partially compacted bed of gravel mixed with shells, of theTertiary age.
cragged: Full of crags, or steep, brokenInto its cragged rents descend. J. Baillie.
craggedness: The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess.
cragginess: The state of being craggy.
craggy: Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, thecraggy side of a mountain. "The craggy ledge." Tennyson.
cragsman: One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes abusiness of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggsof sea birds or the birds themselves.
craie: See Crare. [Obs.]
craig flounder: The pole flounder.
crail: A creel or osier basket.
crake: A boast. See Crack, n. [Obs.] Spenser.
crakeberry: See Crowberry.
craker: One who boasts; a braggart. [Obs.] Old Play.
cram: A warp having more than two threads passing through each dentor split of the reed.
crammer: One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for anexxamination, or a pupil who is thus prepared. Dickens.
cramp: A device, usually of iron bent at the ends, used to holdtogether blocks of stone, timbers, etc.; a cramp iron.
cramp iron: See Cramp, n., 2.
crampet: A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard. [Writtenalso crampit and crampette.]
crampfish: The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives anelectric shock. See Electric fish, and Torpedo.
crampit: See Crampet.
crampon: An a
cramponee: Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a crossso furnished.
crampy: A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.[Scot.] H. Miller.
cranberry: A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, theplant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) Thehigh cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V.Opulus), and the other is sometimes called low cranberry or marshcranberry to distinguish it.
cranch: See Craunch.
crandall: A kind of hammer having a head formed of a group of pointedsteel bars, used for dressing ashlar, etc. -- v. t.
crane: A wading bird of the genus Grus, and allied genera, of variousspecies, having a long, straight bill, and long legs and neck.
crang: See Krang.
crania: A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fanciedresemblance to the cranium or skull.
cranial: Of or pertaining to the cranium.
cranioclasm: The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast orcraniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery. Dunglison.
cranioclast: An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitatedelivery in difficult eases.
craniofacial: Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacialangle.
craniognomy: The science of the form and characteristics of the skull. [R.]
craniological: Of or pertaining to craniology.
craniologist: One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist.
craniology: The department of science (as of ethnology or archæology) whichdeals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., ofskulls; the study of skulls.
craniometer: An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.
craniometry: The art or act of measuring skulls.
cranioscopist: One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.It was found of equal dimension in a literary man whose skull puzziedthe cranioscopists. Coleridge.
cranioscopy: Scientific examination of the cranium.
craniota: A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all thosethat have a skull.
craniotomy: The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effectdelivery.
cranium: The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull,either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain;the brain case or brainpan. See Skull.
crank: A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at rightangles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to orreceived from it; also used to change circular into reciprocatingmotion, or reciprocating into circular motion. See Bell crank.
crankbird: A small European woodpecker (Picus minor).
cranked: Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle.
crankiness: Crankness. Lowell.
crankle: To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle.Old Veg's stream . . . drew her humid train aslope, Crankling herbanks. J. Philips.
crankness: Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.
crannied: Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.Tennyson.
cranny: A tool for forming the necks of bottles, etc.
crantara: The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands ofScotland.
crants: A garland carried before the bier of a maiden. [Obs.]Yet here she is allowed her virgin crants, Her maaiden strewments.Shak.
crap: In the game of craps, a first throw of the dice in which thetotal is two, three, or twelve, in which case the caster loses.
crap shooting: Same as Craps.
crapaud: A toad. [Obs.]
crapaudine: Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door.
crape: A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted onthe mill. Black crape is much used for mourning garments, also forthe dress of some clergymen.A saint in crape is twice a saint in lawn. Pope.Crape myrtle (Bot.), a very ornamental shrub (Lagerströmia Indica)from the East Indies, often planted in the Southern United States.Its foliage is like that of the myrtle, and the flower has wavycrisped petals.-- Oriental crape. See Canton crape.
crapefish: Salted codfish hardened by pressure. Kane.
crapnel: A hook or drag; a grapnel.
crappie: A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in therivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley. Thereare several species. [Written also croppie.]
crapple: A claw. [Obs.]
craps: A gambling game with dice. [Local, U.S.]
crapulence: The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit. Bailey.
crapy: Resembling crape.
crare: A slow unwieldy trading vessel. [Obs.] [Written also crayer,cray, and craie.] Shak.
crase: To break in pieces; to crack. [Obs.] "The pot was crased."Chaucer.
crash: To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise andviolence. [R.]He shakt his head, and crasht his teeth for ire. Fairfax.
crashing: The noise of many things falling and breaking at once.There shall be . . . a great crashing from the hills. Zeph. i. 10.
crasis: A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution;temperament.
craspedota: The hydroid or naked-eyed medusæ. See Hydroidea.
craspedote: Of or pertaining to the Craspedota.
crass: Cross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined. "Crassand fumid exhalations." Sir. T. Browne. "Crass ignorance" Cudworth.
crassiment: See Crassament.
crassitude: Crossness; coarseness; thickness; density. Bacon.
crassness: Grossness. [Obs.] Glanvill.
crastination: Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow. [Obs.]
crataegus: A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, muchused for ornamental purposes.
cratch: A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack. [Obs.]Begin from first where He encradled was, In simple cratch, wrapt in awad of hay. Spenser.Cratch cradle, a representation of the figure of the cratch, madeupon the fingers with a string; cat's cradle; -- called also scratchcradle.
crate: To pack in a crate or case for transportation; as, to crate asewing machine; to crate peaches.
crater: The pit left by the explosion of a mine.
crateriform: Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla.
craterous: Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater. [R.] R. Browning.
craunch: To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; tocrunch. Swift.
cravat: A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, wornby men about the neck.While his wig was combed and his cravat tied. Macualay.
cravatted: Wearing a cravat.The young men faultlessly appointed, handsomely cravatted. Thackeray.
crave: To desire strongly; to feel an insatiable longing; as, acraving appetite.Once one may crave for love. Suckling.
craven: Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless. "His craven heart." Shak.The poor craven bridegroom said never a word. Sir. W. Scott.In craven fear of the sarcasm of Dorset. Macualay.
craver: One who craves or begs.
craving: Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching.A succession of cravings and satiety. L'Estrange.-- Crav"ing*ly, adv.-- Crav"ing*ness, n.
craw: Any crustacean of the family Astacidæ, resembling the lobster,but smaller, and found in fresh waters. Crawfishes are esteemed verydelicate food both in Europe and America. The North American speciesare numerous and mostly belong to the genus Cambarus. The blindcrawfish of the Mamoth Cave is Cambarus pellucidus. The commonEuropean species is Astacus fluviatilis.
crawford: A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, wich yellowflesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey.
crawl: The act or motion of crawling;
crawl stroke: A racing stroke, in which the swimmer, lying flat on the waterwith face submerged, takes alternate overhand arm strokes whilemoving his legs up and down alternately from the knee.
crawler: One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.
crawly: Creepy. [Colloq.]
crayfish: See Crawfish.
crayon: A pencil of carbon used in producing electric light. Crayonboard, cardboard with a surface prepared for crayon drawing.-- Crayon drawing, the act or art of drawing with crayons; a drawingmade with crayons.
crazedness: A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of theintellect.
crazily: In a crazy manner.
creable: Capable of being created. [Obs.] I. Watts.
creaght: A drove or herd. [Obs.] Haliwell.
creak: To make a prolonged sharp grating or ssqueaking sound, as bythe friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak.The creaking locusts with my voice conspire. Dryden.Doors upon their hinges creaked. Tennyson.
creaking: A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such asound.Start not at the creaking of the door. Longfellow.
cream: To form or become covered with cream; to become thick likecream; to assume the appearance of cream; hence, to grow stiff orformal; to mantle.There are a sort of men whose visages Do cream and mantle like astanding pool. Shak.
cream laid: See under Laid.
cream-colored: Of the color of cream; light yellow. "Cream-colored horses."Hazlitt.
cream-faced: White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the naturalcomplexion.Thou cream-faced loon. Shak.
cream-fruit: A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice.
cream-slice: A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling creamor ice cream.
cream-white: As white as cream.
creamcake: A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.
creaminess: The quality of being creamy.
creamy: Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature,appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous. "Creamy bowis." Collins."Lines of creamy spray." Tennyson. "Your creamy words but cozen."Beau & Fl.
creance: A fine, small line, fastened to a hawk's leash, when it isfirst lured.
creant: Creative; formative. [R.] Mrs. Browning.
crease: See Creese. Tennison.
creaser: A tool for making the band impression distinct on the back.Knight.
creasing: A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall.
creasote: See Creosote.
creasy: Full of creases. Tennyson.
creat: An usher to a riding master.
creatable: That may be created.
create: Created; composed; begotte. [Obs.]Hearts create of duty and zeal. Shak.
creatic: Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creaticnausea. [Written also kreatic.]
creatin: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly inmuscle tissue. [Written also kreatine.]
creatinin: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related tocreatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter bythe action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and inurine. [Written also kretinine.]
creational: Of or pertaining to creation.
creationism: The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each humanbeing as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed totraducianism.
creative: Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation."Creative talent." W. Irving.The creative force exists in the germ. Whewell.
creativeness: The qualiyu of being creative.
creator: One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, theSupreme Being.To sin's rebuke and my Creater's praise. Shak.The poets and artists of Greece, who are at the same time itsprophets, the creators of its divinities, and the revealers of itstheological beliefs. Caird.
creatorship: State or condition of a creator.
creatress: She who creates. Spenser.
creatrix: A creatress. [R.]
creatural: Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature.[R.]
creatureless: Without created beings; alone.God was alone And creatureless at first. Donne.
creaturely: Creatural; characteristic of a creature. [R.] "Creaturelyfaculties." Cheyne.
creatureship: The condition of being a creature.
creaturize: To make like a creature; to degrade [Obs.]Degrade and creaturize that mundane soul. Cudworth.
creaze: The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washingpit or buddle.
crebricostate: Marked with closely set ribs or ridges.
crebrisulcate: Marked with closely set transverse furrows.
crebritude: Frequency. [Obs.] Bailey.
crebrous: Frequent; numerous. [Obs.] Goodwin.
creche: A public nursery, where the young children of poor women arecared for during the day, while their mothers are at work.
credence: The small table by the side of the altar or communion table, onwhich the bread and wine are placed before being consecrated.
credendum: A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguishedfrom agendum, a practical duty.The great articles and credenda of Christianity. South.
credential: Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.Their credential letters on both sides. Camden.
credibility: The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, thecredibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses.
credible: Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief;entiled to confidence; trustworthy.Things are made credible either by the known condition and quality ofthe utterer or by the manifest likelihood of truth in themselves.Hooker.A very diligent and observing person, and likewise very sober andcredible. Dampier.
credibleness: The quality or state of being credible; worthness of belief;credibility. [R.] Boyle.
credibly: In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informedof the event.
credit: Trust given or received; expectation of future playment forproperty transferred, or of fulfillment or promises given; mercantilereputation entitling one to be trusted; -- applied to individuals,corporations, communities, or nations; as, to buy goods on credit.Credit is nothing but the expectation of money, within some limitedtime. Locke.
credit foncier: A company licensed for the purpose of carrying outimprovements, by means of loans and advances upon real securities. ]
credit mobilier: A joint stock company, formed for general banking business, orfor the construction of public works, by means of loans on personalestate, after the manner of the crédit foncier on real estate. Inpractice, however, this distinction has not been strictly observed.
creditableness: The quality of being creditable.
creditably: In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.
creditor: A female creditor.
credo: The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.He repeated Aves and Credos. Macualay.
credulity: Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slightevidence.That implict credulity is the mark of a feeble mind will not bedisputed. Sir W. Hamilton.
credulously: With credulity.
credulousness: Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity.Beyond all credulity is the credulousness of atheists. S. Clarke.
creed: To believe; to credit. [Obs.]That part which is so creeded by the people. Milton.
creedless: Without a creed. Carlyle.
creekfish: The chub sucker.
creeks: A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including theMuskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes. Theyformerly inhabited Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.
creeky: Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks;like a creek; winding. "The creeky shore." Spenser.
creel: A bar or set of bars with skewers for holding paying-offbobbins, as in the roving machine, throstle, and mule.
creep: A slow rising of the floor of a gallery, occasioned by thepressure of incumbent strata upon the pillars or sides; a gradualmovement of mining ground.
creeper: A plant that clings by rootlets, or by tendrils, to the ground,or to trees, etc.; as, the Virginia creeper (Ampelopsisquinquefolia).
creepie: A low stool. [Scot.]
creepiness: An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin.She felt a curious, uneasy creepiness. Mrs. Alexander.
creeping charlie: The stonecrop (Sedum acre).
creepingly: by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously;cunningly.How slily and creepingly did he address himself to our first parents.South.
creepy: Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused byinsects creeping on the skin. [Colloq.]One's whole blood grew curdling and creepy. R. Browning.
crees: An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part ofBritish America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson'sBay.
creese: A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having aserpentine blade. [Written also crease and kris.]From a Malayan creese to a sailor's jackknife. Julian Hawthorne.
cremaillere: An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment.
cremaster: A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.
cremasteric: Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.
cremate: To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, eitherdirectly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, tocremate a corpse, instead of burying it.
cremation: A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead.Without cremation . . . of their bodies. Sir T. Browne.
cremationist: One who advocates the practice of cremation.
cremator: One who, or that which, cremmates or consumes to ashes.
crematory: Pertaining to, or employed in, cremation.
creme: Cream; -- a term used esp. in cookery, names of liqueurs, etc.
cremocarp: The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrott, parsnip, and the like,consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis.
cremona: A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy.
cremor: Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.
cremosin: See Crimson. [Obs.]
crems: See Krems.
crenation: A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.
crenature: A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that iscrenate; -- called also crenelle.
crenel: See Crenelle.
crenelation: The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; anindentation or an embrasure. [Written also crenellation.]
crenelled: Same as Crenate.
creole: One born of European parents in the American colonies of Franceor Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. aperson of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant ofLouisiana, or one of the States adjoining, bordering on the Gulf ofof Mexico.
creole state: Louisiana; -- a nickname. See Creole, n. & a.
creosol: A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid,homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gumguaiacum. [Written also creasol.]
creosote: Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smokytaste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown byimpurity or exposure. It is a complex mixture of various phenols andtheir ethers, and is obtained by the distillation of wood tar,especially that of beechwood.
creosote bush: A shrub (Covillea mexicana) found in desert regions fromColorado to California and southward through Mexico. It has yellowflowers and very resinous foliage with a strong odor of creosote.
crepe: Same as Crape.
crepitant: Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling. Crepitant rale(Med.), a peculiar crackling sound audible with inspiration inpneumonia and other lung disease.
crepitate: To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosionsor sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.
crepon: A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool andsilk.
crept: imp. & p. p. of Creep.
crepusculine: Crepuscular. [Obs.] Sprat.
crescence: Increase; enlargement. [Obs.]And toward the moon's attractive crescence bend. H. Brooke.
crescendo: With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with graduallyincreasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for theperformance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the wordon the score.
crescent: The emblem of the increasing moon with horns directed upward,when used in a coat of arms; -- often used as a mark of cadency todistinguish a second son and his descendants.
crescentic: Crescent-shaped. "Crescentic lobes." R. Owen.
crescentwise: In the form of a crescent; like a crescent. Tennyson.
crescive: Increasing; growing. [R.]Unseen, yet crescive in his faculty. Shak.
cresol: Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologouswith and resembling phenol. They are obtained from coal tar and woodtar, and are colorless, oily liquids or solids.
cresorcin: Same as Isorcin.
cress: A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous. The leaveshave a moderately pungent taste, and are used as a salad andantiscorbutic.
cresselle: A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, inthe Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, orthe last week of Lent.
cresset: A small furnace or iron cage to hold fire for charring theinside of a cask, and making the staves flexible. Knight.
cressy: Abounding in cresses.The cressy islets white in flower. Tennyson.
crest: A bearing worn, not upon the shield, but usually above it, orseparately as an ornament for plate, liveries, and the like. It is arelic of the ancient cognizance. See Cognizance, 4.
crested: Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head. "The crestedbird." Dryden.
cresting: An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.
crestless: Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth. "Crestlessyeomen." Shak.
cresylic: Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc. Cresylicacid. (Chem.) See Cresol.
cretaceous: Having the qualities of chalk;abounding with chalk; chalky; as,cretaceous rocks and formations. See Chalk. Cretaceous acid, an oldname for carbonic acid.-- Cretaceous formation (Geol.), the series of strata of variouskinds, including beds of chalk, green sand, etc., formed in theCretaceous period; -- called also the chalk formation. See theDiagram under Geology.-- Cretaceous period (Geol.), the time in the latter part of theMesozoic age during which the Cretaceous formation was deposited.
cretaceously: In a chalky manner; as chalk.
cretan: Pertaining to Crete, or Candia.-- n.
crete: A Cretan
cretian: See Cretan.
cretic: A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two longones (-Bentley.
creticism: Falsehood; lying; cretism.
cretin: One afflicted with cretinism.
cretinism: A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied byphysical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent incertain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps.
cretinous: Having the characteristics of a cretin. "Cretinousstupefaction." Ruskin.
cretism: A Cretan practice; iying; a falsehood.
cretose: Chalky; cretaceous. [Obs.] Ash.
creutzer: (kroitn. See Kreutzer.
creux: Used in English only in the expression en creux. Thus,engraving en creux is engraving in intaglio, or by sinking orhollowing out the design.
crevet: A crucible or melting pot; a cruset. Crabb.
crevice: A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or theseparation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.The mouse, Behind the moldering wainscot, shrieked, Or from thecrevice peered about. Tennyson.
creviced: Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure forstoring ears of corn.Trickling through the creviced rock. J. Cunningham.
crevis: The crawfish. [Prov. Eng.]
crew: The Manx shearwater.
crewel: Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.
crewelwork: Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material,such as linen.
crewet: See Cruet.
crib: A structure or frame of timber for a foundation, or forsupporting a roof, or for lining a shaft.
crib-biting: Same as Cribbing, 4.
cribbage: A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which thereis a crib. (See Crib, 11.) It is characterized by a great variety ofchances.A man's fancy would be summed up in cribbage. John Hall.Cribbage board, a board with holes and pegs, used by cribbage playersto score their game.
cribbing: A framework of timbers and plank backing for a shaft lining, toprevent caving, percolation of water, etc.
cribble: To cause to pass through a sieve or riddle; to sift.
cribellum: A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ),used for spinning a special kind of silk.
cribrate: Cribriform.
cribration: The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs fromthe coarser by sifting.
cribriform: Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with hokes;as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.Cribriform cells (Bot.), those which have here and there oblique ortransverse sieve plates, or places perforated with many holes.
cribrose: Perforated like a sieve; cribriform.
cric: The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.Knight.
crick: The creaking of a door, or a noise resembling it. [Obs.]Johnson.
cricket: An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera.The males make chirping, musical notes by rubbing together the basalparts of the veins of the front wings.
cricketer: One who plays at cricket.
cricoid: Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx,and the adjoining parts.
cricothyroid: Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroidcartilages.
cried: imp. & p. p. of Cry.
crier: One who cries; one who makes proclamation. Specifically, anofficer who proclams the orders or directions of a court, or whogives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier.He openeth his mouth like a crier. Ecclus. xx. 15.
crimeful: Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury. [Obs.] Shak.
crimeless: Free from crime; innocent. Shak.
criminal: One who has commited a crime; especially, one who is foundguilty by verdict, confession, or proof; a malefactor; a felon.
criminalist: One versed in criminal law. [R.]
criminality: The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutesa crime; guiltiness; guilt.This is by no means the only criterion of criminality. Blackstone.
criminally: In violation of law; wickedly.
criminalness: Criminality. [R.]
crimination: The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint.The criminations and recriminations of the adverse parties. Macaulay.
criminative: Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory. R. North.
criminatory: Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, acriminatory conscience.
criminology: A treatise on crime or the criminal population.-- Crim`i*nol"o*gist (-j, n.
criminous: Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked;heinous. [Obs.] Holland.-- Crim"i*nous*ly, adv..-- Crim"i*nous*ness,n. [Obs.]
crimosin: See Crimson.
crimp: To cause to contract, or to render more crisp, as the flesh ofa fish, by gashing it, when living, with a knife; as, to crimp skate,etc. Crimping house, a low lodging house, into which men are decoyedand plied with drink, to induce them to ship or enlist as sailors orsoldiers.-- Crimping iron. (a) An iron instrument for crimping and curlingthe hair. (b) A crimping machine.-- Crimping machine, a machine with fluted rollers or with dies, forcrimping ruffles leather, iron, etc.-- Crimping pin, an instrument for crimping or puckering the borderof a lady's cap.
crimpage: The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp forshipping or enlisting men.
crimper: One who, or that which, crimps; as
crimple: To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl. [R.]Wiseman.
crimpy: Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool ofthe Saxony sheep.
crimson: A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.Theugh jour be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; thoughthey be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Is. i. 18.A maid jet rosed over with the virgin crimson of modesty. Shak.
crinal: Of or pertaining to the hair. [R.] Blount.
crinated: Having hair; hairy.
crinatory: Crinitory. Craig.
crincum: A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey. [Colloq.] Hudibras.
crincum-crancum: A twist; a whimsey or whim. [Colloq.]
crined: Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of thebody; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.
cringe: To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend orcrouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in adegrading manner; to fawn.When they were come up to the place where the lions were, the boysthat went before were glad to cringe behind, for they were afraid ofthe lions. Bunyan.Sly hypocrite, . . . who more than thou Once fawned and cringed, andservilely adored Heaven's awful monarch Milton.Flatterers . . . are always bowing and cringing. Arbuthnot.
cringeling: One who cringes meanly; a fawner.
cringer: One who cringes.
cringingly: In a cringing manner.
cringle: An iron or pope thimble or grommet worked into or attached tothe edges and corners of a sail; -- usually in the plural. Thecringles are used for making fast the bowline bridles, earings, etc.
crinicultural: Relating to the growth of hair. [R.]
crinigerous: Bearing hair; hairy. [R.]
crinital: Same as Crinite,
crinite: Bearded or tufted with hairs. Gray.
crinitory: Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering. T. Hook.
crinkle: To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold intoinequalites or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl.The houscrinkled to and fro. Chaucer.Her face all bowsy, Comely crinkled, Wondrously wrinkled. Skelton.The flames through all the casements pushing forth, Like red-notdevils crinkled into snakes. Mrs. Browning.
crinkled: Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag."The crinkled lightning." Lowell.
crinkly: Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly.
crinoid: Crinoidal.-- n.
crinoidal: Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing,crinoids.
crinoidea: A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinctfamilies and genera, but comparatively few living ones. Most of thefossil species, like some that are recent, were attached by a jointedstem. See Blastoidea, Cystoidea, Comatula.
crinoidean: One of the Crinoidea.
crinose: Hairy. [R.]
crinosity: Hairiness. [R.]
crinum: A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace,cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty.
criosphinx: A sphinx with the head of a ram.
cripple: One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or neverhad, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who ispartially disabled.I am a cripple in my limbs; but what decays are in my mind, thereader must determine. Dryden.
crippled: Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded. "The crippled crone."Longfellow.
crippleness: Lameness. [R.] Johnson.
crippler: A wooden tool used in graining leather. Knight.
crippling: Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of abuilding.
cripply: Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition. [R.] Mrs. Trollope.
crisis: That change in a disease which indicates whether the result isto be recovery or death; sometimes, also, a striking change ofsymptoms attended by an outward manifestation, as by an eruption orsweat.Till some safe crisis authorize their skill. Dryden.
crisp: To undulate or ripple. Cf. Crisp, v. t.To watch the crisping ripples on the beach. Tennuson.
crispature: The state of being crispate.
crisper: One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument formaking little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla.
crisply: In a crisp manner.
crispness: The state or quality of being crisp.
crisscross: To mark or cover with cross lines; as, a paper was crisscrossedwith red marks.
crisscross-row: See Christcross-row.
crissum: That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacalopening; the under tail coverts.
cristate: Crested.
criterion: A standard of judging; any approved or established rule ortest, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried informing a correct judgment respecting them.Of the diseases of the mind there is no criterion. Donne.Inferences founded on such enduring criteria. Sir G. C. Lewis.
crith: The unit for estimating the weight of a
crithomancy: A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offeredin the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims.
critic: Of or pertaining to critics or criticism; critical. [Obs.]"Critic learning." Pope.
critical: Pertaining to, or indicating, a crisis, turning point, orspecially important juncture; important as regards consequences;hence, of doubtful issue; attended with risk; dangerous; as, thecritical stage of a fever; a critical situation.Our circumstances are indeed critical. Burke.The small moment, the exact point, the critical minute, on whichevery good work so much depends. South.Critical angle (Optics), that angle of incidence of a luminous ray atwhich it is wholly reflected, and no portion of it transmitted. Thesine of this angle is the reciprocal of the refractive index of themedium.-- Critical philosophy, the metaphysical system of Kant; -- socalled from his most important work, the "Critique of Pure Reason." -- Critical point (Physics), a certain temperature, different fordifferent gases, but always the same for each gas, regarded as thelimit above which no amount of pressure can produce condensation to aliquid.
criticaster: A contemptible or vicious critic.The rancorous and reptile crew of poeticules, who decompose intocriticasters. Swinburne.
criticisable: Capable of being criticised.
criticiser: One who criticises; a critic.
critique: To criticise or pass judgment upon. [Obs.] Pope.
crizzel: A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds itstransparency. [Written also crizzeling and crizzle.]
croak: To utter in a low, hoarse voice; to announce by croaking; toforebode; as, to croak disaster.The raven himself is hoarse, That croaks the fatal entrance ofDuncan. Shak.Two ravens now began to croak Their nuptial song. Wordsworth.
croatian: Of or pertaining to Croatia.-- n.
crocein: A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffsof artificial production and complex structure. In general they arediazo and sulphonic acid derivatives of benzene and naphthol.
croceous: Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow. [R.]
crocetin: A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese croicin, which produces abrilliant yellow.
croche: A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.
crochet: A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, withworsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work. Commonly used adjectively.Crochet hook, Crochet needle, a small hook, or a hooked needle (oftenof bone), used in crochet work.
crociary: One who carries the cross before an archbishop. [Obs.]
crocidolite: A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color. Itis related to hornblende and is essentially a silicate of iron andsoda; -- called also blue asbestus. A silicified form, in which thefibers penetrating quartz are changed to oxide of iron, is the yellowbrown tiger-eye of the jewelers.
crock: The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on potsand kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter whichrubs off from cloth.
crocker: A potter. [Obs.] Wyclif.
crockery: Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially thecoarser kinds.
crocket: An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage,projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.
crocketed: Ornamented with crockets.
crocketing: Ornamentation with crockets. Ruskin.
crocky: Smutty.
crocodile: A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species.They grow to the length of sixteen or eighteen feet, and inhabit thelarge rivers of Africa, Asia, and America. The eggs, laid in thesand, are hatched by the sun's heat. The best known species is thatof the Nile (C. vulgaris, or C. Niloticus). The Florida crocodile (C.Americanus) is much less common than the alligator and has longerjaws. The name is also sometimes applied to the species of otherrelated genera, as the gavial and the alligator.
crocodilia: An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials,alligators, and many extinct kinds.
crocodilian: Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of thecrocodile.-- n.
crocodility: A caption or sophistical mode of arguing. [R.]
crocoisite: Same as Crocoite.
crocoite: Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth redcolor; -- called also red lead ore.
croconate: A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base.
crocose: A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtainedfrom the coloring matter of saffron. [Written also crokose.]
crocus: A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms risingseparately from the bulb or corm. C. vernus is one of the earliest ofspring-blooming flowers; C. sativus produces the saffron, andblossoms in the autumn.
croesus: A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., andwas renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for avery rich man; as, he is veritable Croesus.
croft: A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm.A few small crofts of stone-encumbered ground. Wordsworth.
crofter: One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, thecrofters of Scotland.
crofting: Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process ofbleaching.
croftland: Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised.[Scot.] Jamieson.
crofton system: A system of prison discipline employing for consecutive periodscellular confinement, associated imprisonment under the mark system,restraint intermediate between imprisonment and freedom, andliberation on ticket of leave.
crois: See Cross, n. [Obs.]
croissante: Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of whichare so terminated.
croker: A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron. [Obs.] Holinshed.
croma: A quaver. [Obs.]
cromlech: A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large onessupported in a horizontal position upon others. They are foundchiefly in countris inhabited by the ancient Celts, and are of aperiod anterior to the introduction of Christianity into thesecountries.
cromorna: A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of toneresembling that of the oboe. [Corruptly written cromona.]
cronel: The iron head of a tilting spear.
cronet: The coronet of a horse.
cronian: Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea. [R.] Milton.
cronstedtite: A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, andcrystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- sonamed from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt.
crook: A small tube, usually curved, applied to a trumpet, horn, etc.,to change its pitch or key.
crookback: A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; ahunchback.
crookbill: A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable forhaving the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.
crookedly: In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untowardmanner.
crookedness: The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity ofbody or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness.
crooken: To make crooked. [Obs.]
crookes space: The dark space within the negative-pole glow at the cathode ofa vacuum tube, observed only when the pressure is low enough to givea striated discharge; -- called also Crookes layer.
crookes tube: A vacuum tube in which the exhaustion is carried to a very highdegree, with the production of a distinct class of effects; -- socalled from W. Crookes who introduced it.
crookneck: Either of two varieties of squash, distinguished by theirtapering, recurved necks. The summer crookneck is botanically avariety of the pumpkin (Cucurbita pepo) and matures early in theseason. It is pale yellow in color, with warty excrescences. Thewinter crookneck belongs to a distinct species (C. moschata) and issmooth and often striped. [U. S.]
crop: A projecting ornament in carved stone. Specifically, a finial.[Obs.]
crop-ear: A person or animal whose ears are cropped.
crop-eared: Having the ears cropped.
crop-tailed: Having the tail cropped.
cropful: Having a full crop or belly; satiated. Milton.
cropper: A machine for cropping, as for shearing off bolts or rod iron,or for facing cloth.
cropsick: Sick from excess in eating or drinking. [Obs.] "Cropsickdrunkards." Tate.-- Crop"sick`ness, n. [Obs.] Whitlock.
croquante: A brittle cake or other crisp pastry.
croquet: In the game of croquet, to drive away an opponent's ball, afterputting one's own in contact with it, by striking one's own ball withthe mallet.
croquette: A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highlyseasoned, and fried.
crore: Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly$5,000,000). [East Indies] Malcolm.
crosier: The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, beingthe symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.
crosiered: Bearing a crosier.
croslet: See Crosslet.
cross: A monument in the form of a cross, or surmounted bu a cross,set up in a public place; as, a market cross; a boundary cross;Charing Cross in London.Dun-Edin's Cross, a pillared stone, Rose on a turret octagon. Sir W.Scott.
cross-armed: With arms crossed.
cross-banded: A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into thesurfase of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that thegrain of it is contrary to the general surface.
cross-bearer: A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primateon solemn occasions.
cross-birth: Any preternatural labor, in whiche the boly of the child liesacross the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunkis the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus.
cross-bun: A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten onGood Friday.
cross-buttock: A throw in which the wrestler turns his left side to hisopponent, places his left leg across both legs of his opponent, andpulls him forward over his hip; hence, an unexpected defeat orrepulse.
cross-crosslet: A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to fromthree small crosses.
cross-days: The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension.
cross-examination: The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the partyagainst whom he has been called and examined. See Examination.
cross-examine: To examine or question, as a witness who has been called andexamined by the opposite party. "The opportunity to cross-examine thewitnesses." Kent.
cross-examiner: One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.
cross-eye: See Strabismus.
cross-eyed: Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.
cross-fertilize: To fertilize, as the stigmas of a flower or plant, with thepollen from another individual of the  same species.
cross-garnet: A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other straphorizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross.
cross-pawl: Same as Cross-spale.
cross-purpose: A conversational game, in which questions and answers are madeso as to involve ludicrous combinations of ideas. Pepys. To be atcross-purposes, to misunderstand or to act counter to one anotherwithout intending it; -- said of persons.
cross-question: To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.
cross-reading: The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across thepage, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrouscombination of ideas.
cross-springer: One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the cornersin a diagonal direction.
cross-stitch: A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs,the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other. "Tent and cross-stitch." Sir W. Scott.-- Cross"-stitch`, v. t. & i.
cross-stone: See Harmotome, and Staurotide.
cross-tail: A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of abackaction or side-lever engine.
cross-tie: A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding themin place.
cross-tining: A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges.Crabb.
cross-vaulting: Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simplevaults.
cross-week: Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions.
crossbar: A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as theiron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor toinsure its turning fluke down. Russell. Crossbar shot, a projectilewhich folds into a sphere for loading, but on leaving the gun expandsto a cross with a quarter ball at the end of each arm; -- used innaval actions for cutting the enemy's rigging.
crossbeak: Same as Crossbill.
crossbeam: A girder.
crossbill: A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit,against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in thatsuit. Bouvier.
crossbite: A deeption; a cheat. [Obs.]
crossbones: A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of askeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and servingas a symbol of death.Crossbones, scythes, hourglasses, and other lugubrios emblems ofmortality. Hawthorne.
crossbow: A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bowcrosswise on a stock.
crossbower: A crossbowman.[Obs.]
crossbowman: One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest.
crossbred: Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel.
crosscut: , v. t. To cut across or through; to intersect.
crosse: The implement with which the ball is thrown and caught in thegame of lacrosse.
crossfish: A starfish.
crossflow: To flow across, or in a contrary direction. "His crossflowingcourse." Milton.
crosshatch: To shade by means of crosshatching.
crosshatching: In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that crossone another at an angle.
crosshead: A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a blockattached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiecerunning between parallel slides, which receives motion from thepiston of a steam engine and imparts it to the connecting rod, whichis hinged to the crosshead.
crossjack: The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast.
crosslegged: Having the legs crossed.
crosslet: A crucible. [Obs.] Chaucer.
crossly: Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; withill humor.
crossness: The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness;ill humor.
crossopterygian: Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii.-- n.
crossopterygii: An order of ganoid fishes including among living species thebichir (Polypterus). See Brachioganoidei.
crosspatch: An ill-natured person. [Colloq.] "Crosspatch, draw the latch."Mother Goose.
crosspiece: A bar or timber connecting two knightheads or two bitts.
crossroad: A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting oravoiding the main road.
crossruff: The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit,and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.
crosstrees: Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the uppershrouds. At the head of lower masts in large vessels, they support asemicircular platform called the "top."
crossway: See Crossroad.
crosswise: In the form of a cross; across; transversely. Longfellow.
crosswort: A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves inwhorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.
crotalaria: A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.
crotaline: Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnakefamily.
crotalo: A Turkish musical instrument.
crotalum: A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.
crotalus: A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.
crotaphite: The temple or temporal fossa. Also used adjectively.
crotaphitic: Pertaining to the temple; temporal.
crotch: A stanchion or post of wood or iron, with two arms forsupporting a boom, spare yards, etc.; -- called also crane andcrutch. Totten.
crotch chain: A form of tackle for loading a log sideways on a sled, skidway,etc.
crotchet: A time note, with a stem, having one fourth the value of asemibreve, one half that of a minim, and twice that of a quaver; aquarter note.
crotcheted: Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation.Harmar (1587).
crotchetiness: The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical.This belief in rightness is a kind of conscientiousness, and when itdegenerates it becomes crotchetiness. J. Grote.
crotchety: Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man.
croton: A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropicalcountries. Croton oil (Med.), a viscid, acrid, brownish yellow oilobtained from the seeds of Croton Tiglium, a small tree of the EastIndies. It is a most powerful drastic cathartic, and is usedexternally as a pustulant.
croton bug: A small, active, winged species of cockroach (EctobiaGermanica), the water bug. It is common aboard ships, and in housesin cities, esp. in those with hot-water pipes.
crotonic: Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genusCroton, or from croton oil. Crotonic acid (Chem.), a whitecrystalline organic acid, C3H5.CO2H, of the ethylene, or acrylic acidseries. It was so named because formerly supposed to exist in crotonoil. Also, any acid metameric with crotonic acid proper.
crotonine: A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it withwater and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of theoil. Watts.
crotonylene: A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, producedartificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of theacetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid.
crottles: A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing. [Scot.]
crouched: Marked with the sign of the cross. [Obs.] Crouched friar. SeeCrutched friar, under Crutched.
croud: See Crowd, a violin.
crouke: A crock; a jar. [Obs.] Chauser.
croup: The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especiallyof a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle.So light to the croup the fair lady he swung, So light to the saddlebefore her he sprung. Sir W. Scott.
croupade: A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward hisbelly.
croupal: Croupy.
crouper: See Crupper.
croupous: Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with theformation of a deposit or membrance like that found in membranouscroup; as, croupous laryngitis. Croupous pneumonia, pneumoniaattended with deposition of fibrinous matter in the air vesicles ofthe lungs; ordinary acute pneumonia.
croupy: Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as,a croupy cough.
crouse: Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent. [Scot.] Burns.
croustade: Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon.Bishop.
crout: See Sourkrout.
crouton: Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil,to garnish hashes, etc.
crow: A bird, usually black, of the genus Corvus, having a strongconical beak, with projecting bristles. It has a harsh, croakingnote. See Caw.
crow-quill: A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill.
crow-silk: A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus,Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).
crow-trodden: Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes. [Poetic]Do I look as if I were crow-trodden Beau. & FL.
crowbar: A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.
crowberry: A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, ablack, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.
crowd: An ancient instrument of music with six strings; a kind ofviolin, being the oldest known stringed instrument played with a bow.[Written also croud, crowth, cruth, and crwth.]A lackey that . . . can warble upon a crowd a little. B. Jonson.
crowder: One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler. [Obs.] "Some blindcrowder." Sir P. Sidney.
crowdy: A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of theporridge kind. [Scot.]
crowflower: A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos-cuculi.
crowfoot: The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds,others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.
crowkeeper: A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow.[Obs.]Scaring the ladies like a crowkeeper. Shak.
crown: p. p. of Crow. [Obs.]
crown colony: A colony of the British Empire not having an electivemagistracy or a parliament, but governed by a chief magistrate(called Governor) appointed by the Crown, with executive councilorsnominated by him and not elected by the people.
crown office: The criminal branch of the Court of King's or Queen's Bench,commonly called the crown side of the court, which takes cognizanceof all criminal cases. Burrill.
crown side: See Crown office.
crown wheel: A wheel with cogs or teeth set at right angles to its plane; --called also a contrate wheel or face wheel.
crown-imperial: A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lilyfamily, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell-shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves.
crown-post: Same as King-post.
crown-saw: A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the endor edge, and operated by a rotative motion.
crowner: A coroner. [Prov. Eng. or Scot.]
crownland: In Austria-Hungary, one of the provinces, or largestadministrative divisions of the monarchy; as, the crownland of LowerAustria.
crownless: Without a crown.
crownlet: A coronet. [Poetic] Sir W. Scott.
crownwork: A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with theiroutworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected bywings with the main work or the river bank.
crows: A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; --also called Upsarokas.
crowstep: See Corriestep.
crowstone: The top stone of the gable end of a house. Halliwell.
crowth: An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.
croydon: A kind of carriage like a gig, orig. of wicker-work.
croylstone: Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small.
croys: See Cross, n. [Obs.] Chaucer.
croze: A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks,etc.; also, the groove itself.
crozier: See Crosier.
croziered: Crosiered.
crucian carp: A kind of European carp (Carasius vulgaris), inferior to thecommon carp; -- called also German carp.
cruciate: Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross;cruciform.
cruciation: The act of torturing; torture; torment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
crucible steel: Cast steel made by fusing in crucibles crude or scrap steel,wrought iron, and other ingredients and fluxes.
crucifer: Any plant of the order Cruciferæ.
cruciferous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which havefour petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard,radish, turnip, etc.
crucifier: One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to apainful trial.
cruciform: Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form ofa cross.
crucigerous: Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross. Sir. T.Browne.
crud: See Curd. [Obs.]
cruddle: To curdle. [Obs.]See how thy blood cruddles at this. Bea
crude: Harsh and offensive, as a color; tawdry or in bad taste, as acombination of colors, or any design or work of art.
crudely: In a crude, immature manner.
crudeness: A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness;immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, thecrudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans.
crudle: See Cruddle.
crudy: Coagulated. [Obs.]His cruel wounds with crudy blood congealed. Spenser.
cruel: See Crewel.
cruelness: Cruelty. [Obs.] Spenser.
cruels: Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.
cruentate: Smeared with blood. [Obs.] Glanwill.
cruentous: Bloody; cruentate. [Obs.]
cruet: A vessel used to hold wine, oil, or water for the service ofthe altar. Cruet stand, a frame for holding cruets; a caster.
cruise: See Cruse, a small bottle.
cruiser: One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel.
cruive: A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel.[Scot.]
crull: Curly; curled. [Obs.]
cruller: A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, andfried crisp in boiling fat. [Also written kruller.]
crumb: To break into crumbs or small pieces with the fingers; as, tocrumb bread. [Written also crum.]
crumbcloth: A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive fallingfragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean. [Written alsocrumcloth.]
crumble: To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces.He with his bare wand can unthread thy joints, And crumble all thysinews. Milton.
crumbly: EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle. "The crumbly soil."Hawthorne.
crumenal: A purse. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
crummable: Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces.
crumpet: A kind of large. thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, andcooked on a griddle or spider.
crumple: To draw or press into wrinkles or folds to crush together; torumple; as, to crumple paper.They crumpled it into all shapes, and diligently scanned everywrinkle that could be made. Addison.
crumpy: Brittle; crisp. Wright.
crunch: To crush with the teeth; to chew with a grinding noise; tocraunch; as, to crunch a biscuit.
crunodal: Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves.
crunode: A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. SeeDouble point, under Double, a.
cruor: The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion ofcoagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore.
cruorin: The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal;hæmoglobin.
crup: Short; brittle; as, crup cake. Todd.
crupper: To fit with a crupper; to place a crupper upon; as, to cruppera horse.
crura: See Crus.
crural: Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the partscalled crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal;crural ring.
crusade: To engage in a crusade; to attack in a zealous or hot-headedmanner. "Cease crusading against sense." M. Green.
crusader: One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages.Azure-eyed and golden-haired, Forth the young crusaders fared.Longfellow.
crusading: Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit.
crusado: An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents. [Writtenalso cruade.] Shak.
cruset: A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.
crush: To be or become broken down or in, or pressed into a smallercompass, by external weight or force; as, an eggshell crushes easily.
crusher: One who, or that which, crushes. Crusher gauge, an instrumentfor measuring the explosive force of gunpowder, etc., by its effectin compressing a piece of metal.
crushing: That crushes; overwhelming. "The blow must be quick andcrushing." Macualay.
crust: The exterior portion of the earth, formerly universallysupposed to inclose a molten interior.
crustacea: One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters andcrabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they arecovered.
crustacean: Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous.-- n.
crustaceological: Pertaining to crustaceology.
crustaceologist: One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist.
crustaceology: That branch of Zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea;malacostracology; carcinology.
crustaceous: Belonging to the Crustacea; crustacean.
crustaceousness: The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlikeshell.
crustal: Relating to a crust.
crustalogical: Pertaining to crustalogy.
crustalogist: One versed in crustalogy.
crustalogy: Crustaceology.
crustated: Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt.
crustation: An adherent crust; an incrustation. Pepys.
crusted: Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crustedport wine.
crustific: Producing or forming a crust or skin. [R.]
crustily: In a crusty or surly manner; morosely.
crusty: Having a hard exterior, or a short, rough manner, though kindat heart; snappish; peevish; surly.Thou crusty batch of nature, what's the news Shak.
crut: The rough, shaggy part of oak bark.
crutch: To support on crutches; to prop up. [R.]Two fools that crutch their feeble sense on verse. Dryden.
crutched: Marked with the sign of the cross; crouched. Crutched friar(Eccl.), one of a religious order, so called because its members borethe sign of the cross on their staves and habits; -- called alsocrossed friar and crouched friar.
cruth: See 4th Crowd.
crux: Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain. Dr.Sheridan.The perpetual crux of New Testament chronologists. Strauss.
crux ansata: A cross in the shape of the ankh.
cruzado: A coin. See Crusado.
crwth: See 4th Crowd.
cryal: The heron [Obs.] Ainsworth.
cryer: The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.
crying: Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous;as, a crying evil.Too much fondness for meditative retirement is not the crying sin ofour modern Christianity. I. Taylor.
cryohydrate: A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., whichcrystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures,or below the freezing point of water. F. Guthrie.
cryolite: A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in whitecleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.
cryometer: A thermometer for the measurement of low temperatures, esp.such an instrument containing alcohol or some other liquid of a lowerfreezing point than mercury.
cryophorus: An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by itsown evaporation. The ordinary form consist of two glass bulbs,connected by a tube of the same material, and containing only aquantity of water and its vapor, devoid of air. The water is in oneof the bulbs, and freezes when the other is cooled below 32º Fahr.
crypt: A simple gland, glandular cavity, or tube; a follicle; as, thecryps of Lieberk.
cryptal: Of or pertaining to crypts.
cryptically: Secretly; occultly.
cryptidine: One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oilyliquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with,and resembling, cryptidine proper.
cryptobranchiate: Having concealed or rudimentary gills.
cryptocrystalline: Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals,whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles arevisible, even under the microscope.
cryptogam: A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia. Henslow.
cryptogamia: The series or division of flowerless plants, or those neverhaving true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of variouskinds.
cryptogamist: One skilled in cryptogamic botany.
cryptogram: A cipher writing. Same as Cryptograph.
cryptograph: Cipher; something written in cipher. "Decipherers ofcryptograph." J. Earle.
cryptographal: Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical. Boyle.
cryptographer: One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.
cryptographist: Same as Cryptographer.
cryptography: The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secretcharacters, or cipher.
cryptology: Secret or enigmatical language. Johnson.
cryptonym: A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to theinitiated.
cryptopine: A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantitiesfrom opium.
crypturi: An order of flying, dromTinamou.
crystal: The regular form which a substance tends to assume insolidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction. It isbounded by plane surfaces, symmetrically arranged, and each speciesof crystal has fixed axial ratios. See Crystallization.
crystallin: See Gobulin.
crystallite: A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanicrocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline andnot referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step inthe crystallization process. According to their form crystallites arecalled trichites, belonites, globulites, etc.
crystallizable: Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed intocrystals.
crystallization: The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumesthe form and sructure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.
crystallize: To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form.
crystallogeny: The science which pertains to the production of crystals.
crystallographer: One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation;one versed in crystallography.
crystallographically: In the manner of crystallography.
crystalloid: Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.
crystallomancy: Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body,especially a beryl.
crystallometry: The art of measuring crystals.
crystallurgy: Crystallizaton.
ctenocyst: An organ of the Ctenophora, supposed to be sensory.
ctenoid: A ctenoidean.
ctenoidean: Relating to the Ctenoidei.-- n.
ctenoidei: A group of fishes, established by Agassiz, characterized byhaving scales with a pectinated margin, as in the perch. The group isnow generally regarded as artificial.
ctenophora: A class of Coelenterata, commonly ellipsoidal in shape,swimming by means of eight longitudinal rows of paddles. The separatepaddles somewhat resemble combs.
ctenophore: (Zoöl.) One of the Ctenophora.
ctenostomata: A suborder of Bryozoa, usually having a circle of bristlesbelow the tentacles.
cub: To bring forth; -- said of animals, or in contempt, of persons."Cubb'd in a cabin." Dryden.
cuban: Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants.-- n.
cubation: The act of lying down; a reclining. [Obs.]
cubatory: Lying down; recumbent. [R.]
cubature: The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of abody.
cubbridge-head: A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.
cubdrawn: Sucked by cubs. [R.]This night, wherein the cub-drawn bear would couch. Shak.
cube: A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.
cubeb: The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; inmed., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but nowcultivated in various tropical countries. The dried unripe fruit ismuch used in medicine as a stimulant and purgative.
cubebic: Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (asoft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs).
cubhood: The state of being a cub. [Jocose] "From cubhood to old age."W. B. Dawkins.
cubic: A curve of the third degree. Circular cubic. See underCircular.
cubically: In a cubical method.
cubicalness: The quality of being cubical.
cubicle: A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from alarge dormitory.
cubicular: Belonging to a chamber or bedroom. [Obs.] Howell.
cubiform: Of the form of a cube.
cubile: The lowest course of stones in a building.
cubilose: A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as thecharacteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests.
cubism: A movement or phase in post-impressionism (which see, below). -- Cu"bist (#), n.
cubit: The forearm; the ulna, a bone of the arm extending from elbowto wrist. [Obs.]
cubital: A sleeve covering the arm from the elbow to the hand. Crabb.
cubited: Having the measure of a cubit.
cubless: Having no cubs. Byron.
cubo-octahedral: Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.
cubo-octahedron: A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which theoctahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges.
cuboid: Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot.-- n. (Anat.)
cuboidal: Cuboid.
cuca: See Coca.
cucking stool: A kind of chair formerly used for punishing scolds, and alsodishonest tradesmen, by fastening them in it, usually in front oftheir doors, to be pelted and hooted at by the mob, but sometimes tobe taken to the water and ducked; -- called also a castigatory, atumbrel, and a trebuchet; and often, but not so correctly, a duckingstool. Sir. W. Scott.
cuckold: To make a cuckold of, as a husband, by seducing his wife, or byher becoming an adulteress. Shak.
cuckoldize: To cuckold. Dryden.
cuckoldly: Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking.Shak.
cuckoldom: The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively. Addison.
cuckoldry: The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.
cuckoo: A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several alliedgenera, of many species.
cuckoobud: A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called alsobutterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup. Shak.
cuckooflower: A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock. Itsleaves are used in salads. Also, the ragged robin (Lychnis Flos-cuculi).
cuckoopint: A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake-robin.
cucquean: A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her. [Obs.]
cucujo: The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.
cucullus: A hood-shaped organ, resembling a cowl or monk's hood, ascertain concave and arched sepals or petals.
cuculoid: Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidæ).
cucumber: A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of thegenus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which iseaten either fresh or picked. Also, similar plants or fruits ofseveral other genera. See below. Bitter cucumber (Bot.), theCitrullus or Cucumis Colocynthis. SeeColocynth.-- Cucumber beetle. (Zoöl.) (a) A small, black flea-beetle(Crepidodera cucumeris), which destroys the leaves of cucumber,squash, and melon vines. (b) The squash beetle.-- Cucumber tree.(a) A large ornamental or shade tree of the genusMagnolia (M. acuminata), so called from a slight resemblance of itsyoung fruit to a small cucumber. (b) An East Indian plant (AverrhoaBilimbi) which produces the fruit known as bilimbi.-- Jamaica cucumber, Jerusalem cucumber, the prickly-fruited gherkin(Cucumis Anguria).-- Snake cucumber, a species (Cucumis flexuosus) remarkable for itslong, curiously-shaped fruit.-- Squirting cucumber, a plant (Ecbalium Elaterium) whose small ovalfruit separates from the footstalk when ripe and expels its seeds andjuice with considerable force through the opening thus made. SeeElaterium.-- Star cucumber,a climbing weed (Sicyos angulatus) with pricklyfruit.
cucumiform: Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylindertapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved.
cucumis: A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kindsof gourds.
cucurbitaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of whichthe cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples.
cucurbitive: Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain smallworms.
cudbear: A lichen (Lecanora tartarea), from which the powder isobtained.
cudden: The coalfish. See 3d Cuddy.
cuddle: ToShe cuddles low beneath the brake; Nor would she stay, nor dares shefly. Prior.
cuddy: A lever mounted on a tripod for lifting stones, leveling uprailroad ties, etc. Knight.
cudgel: A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, andwielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.He getteth him a grievous crabtree cudgel and . . . falls to ratingof them as if they were dogs. Bunyan.Cudgel play, a fight or sportive contest with cudgels.-- To cross the cudgels, to forbear or give up the contest; -- aphrase borrowed from the practice of cudgel players, who lay onecudgel over another when the contest is ended.-- To take up cudgels for, to engage in a contest in behalf of (someone or something).
cudgeler: One who beats with a cudgel. [Written also cudgeller.]
cudweed: A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves,primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to manyplants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed.
cue: To form into a cue; to braid; to twist.
cuerpo: The body. In cuerpo, without full dress, so that the shape ofthe Body is exposed; hence, naked or uncovered.Exposed in cuerpo to their rage. Hudibras.
cuesta: A sloping plain, esp. one with the upper end at the crest of acliff; a hill or ridge with one face steep and the opposite facegently sloping. [Southwestern U. S.]
cuff: To fight; to scuffle; to box.While the peers cuff to make the rabble sport. Dryden.
cuffy: A name for a negro. [Slang]
cufic: Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabiclanguage. [Written also Kufic.]
cui bono: Lit., for whose benefit; incorrectly understood, it came to beused in the sense, of what good or use; and hence, (what) purpose;object; specif., the ultimate object of life.
cuinage: The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with thearms of the duchy of Cornwall.
cuir bouilli: In decorative art, boiled leather, fitted by the process toreceive impressed patterns, like those produced by chasing metal, andto retain the impression permanently.
cuirass: An armor of bony plates, somewhat resembling a cuirass.
cuirassed: Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass;- saidof certain fishes.
cuirassier: A soldier armed with a cuirass. Milton.
cuish: Defensive armor for the thighs. [ Written also cuisse, andquish.]
cul-de-sac: a position in which an army finds itself with no way of exitbut to the front.
culasse: The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond.
culdee: One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts ofScotland, Ireland, and Wales.The pure Culdees Were Albyn's earliest priests of God. Campbell.
culerage: See Culrage.
culex: A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito.
culicid: Like or pertaining to the Mosquito family (Culicidæ). -- n.
culiciform: Gnat-shaped.
culinarily: In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen orcooking.
culinary: Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used inkitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art.
cull: To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather orcollect; as, to cuil flowers.From his herd he culls, For slaughter, from the fairest of his bulls.Dryden.Whitest honey in fairy gardens culled. Tennyson.
cullender: A strainer. See Colander.
culler: One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select waressuitable for market.
cullet: Broken glass for remelting.
cullibility: Gullibility. [R.] Swift.
cullible: Easily deceived; gullible.
culling: Anything separated or selected from a mass.
cullion: A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion. "Away,base cullions." Shak.
cullionly: Mean; base. Shak.
cullis: A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids;also, a savory jelly. [Obs.]When I am exellent at caudles And cullises . . . you shall be welcometo me. Beau. & Fl.
cully: A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe;a gull.I have learned that . . . I am not the first cully whom she haspassed upon for a countess. Addison.
cullyism: The state of being a cully.Less frequent instances of eminent cullyism. Spectator.
culm: The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo),jointed and usually hollow.
culmen: The dorsal ridge of a bird's bill.
culmiferous: Having jointed stems or culms.
culminal: Pertaining to a culmen.
culminant: Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence,predominant. [R.]
culminate: Growing upward, as distinguished from a laterral growth; --applied to the growth of corals. Dana.
culpa: Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit,fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect ofintellect, dolus to defect of heart. Wharton.
culpability: The state of being culpable.
culpatory: Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating.Adjectives . . . commonly used by Latian authors in a culpatorysense. Walpole.
culpe: Blameworthiness. [Obs.]Banished out of the realme . . . without culpe. E. Hall.
culpon: A shered; a fragment; a strip of wood. [Obs.] Chaucer.
culrage: Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).
cultch: Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oystergrounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of theoyster. [Also written cutch.]
culter: A colter. See Colter.
cultirostral: Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like aknife, as the heron, stork, etc.
cultirostres: A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.
cultivable: Capable of being cultivated or tilled. Todd.
cultivatable: Cultivable.
cultivator: Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as thebeak of certain birds.
cultriform: Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.
cultrivorous: Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives;-- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow,knives with impunity. Dunglison.
culturable: Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becomingcultured. London Spectator.
cultural: Of or pertaining to culture.
culture: To cultivate; to educate.They came . . . into places well inhabited and cultured. Usher.
culture features: The artificial features of a district as distinguished from thenatural.
culture myth: A myth accounting for the discovery of arts and sciences or theadvent of a higher civilization, as in the Prometheus myth.
cultureless: Having no culture.
cultus: Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship;state of religious development. Cf.Cult, 2.
cultus cod: See Cod, and Buffalo cod, under Buffalo.
culver: A dove. "Culver in the falcon's fist." Spenser.
culverhouse: A dovecote.
culverin: A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder withserpent-shaped handles.Trump, and drum, and roaring culverin. Mac
culverkey: The root of a handsome erect herb (Leptandra, syn. Veronica,Virginica) common in most moist woods of North America , used as anactive cathartic and emetic; also, the plant itself.
culvert: A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road,railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.
culvertail: Dovetail.
culvertailed: United or fastened by a dovetailed joint.
cumacea: An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size.
cumbent: Lying down; recumbent. J. Dyer.
cumber: To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to beburdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining anobject, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.Why asks he what avails him not in fight, And would but cumber andretard his flight Dryden.Martha was cumbered about much serving. Luke x. 40.Cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground Luke xiii. 7.The multiplying variety of arguments, especially frivolous ones, . .. but cumbers the memory. Locke.
cumbrance: Encumbrance. [Obs.]Extol not riches then, the toil of fools, The wise man's cumbrance,if not snare. Milton.
cumbrian: Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocksfound there. Cumbrian system (Geol.), the slate or graywacke systemof rocks, now included in the Cambrian or Silurian system; -- socalled because most prominent at Cumberland.
cumene: A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by thedistillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol.
cumfrey: See Comfrey.
cumic: See Cuming.
cumidine: A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous withaniline.
cumin: A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel(Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish,warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of aniseand caraway. [Written also cummin.]Rank-smelling rue, and cumin good for eyes. Spenser.Black cumin (Bot.), a plant (Nigella sativa) with pungent seeds, usedby the Afghans, etc.
cuminic: Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway;as, cuminic acid. Cuminic acid (Chem.), white crystalline substance,C3H7.C6H4.CO2H, obtained from oil of caraway.
cuminil: A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.
cuminol: A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; --called also cuminic aldehyde.
cummerbund: A sash for the waist; a girdle. [India]
cummin: Same as Cumin.Ye pay tithe of mint, and cummin. Matt. xxiii. 23.
cumquat: See Kumquat.
cumshaw: A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on shipswhich entered the port of Canton. S. Wells Williams.
cumu-cirro-stratus: Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud.
cumulate: To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; toaccumulate.Shoals of shells, bedded and cumulated heap upon heap. Woodward.
cumulation: The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation.
cumulatist: One who accumulates; one who collects. [R.]
cumulose: Full of heaps.
cumulostratus: A form of cloud. See Cloud.
cumulus: One of the four principal forms of clouds. SeeCloud.
cun: To con (a ship). [Obs.]
cunabula: The extant copies of the first or earliest printed books, or ofsuch as were printed in the 15th century.
cunctation: Delay; procrastination. [R.] Carlyle.
cunctative: Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay.
cunctator: One who delays or lingers. [R.]
cunctipotent: All-powerful; omnipotent. [R] "God cunctipotent." Neale (Trans.Rhythm of St. Bernard).
cund: To con (a ship). [Obs.]
cundurango: The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of theMilkweed family. It has been supposed, but erroneously, to be a curefor cancer. [Written also condurango.]
cuneal: Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.
cuneatic: Cuneiform. "Cuneatic decipherment." Sayce.
cunette: A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette.
cunningly: In a cunning manner; with cunning.
cunningman: A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries. [Obs.]Hudibras.
cunningness: Quality of being cunning; craft.
cup: Repeated potations; social or exessive indulgence inintoxicating drinks; revelry.Thence from cups to civil broils. Milton.
cup shake: A shake or fissure between the annual rings of a tree, foundoftenest near the roots.
cup-gall: A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall.
cup-moss: A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia.
cup-rose: Red poppy. See Cop-rose.
cupbearer: One of the attendants of a prince or noble, permanently chargedwith the performance of this office for his master. "I was the king'scupbearer." Neh. i. 11.
cupboard: To collect, as into a cupboard; to hoard. [R.] Shak.
cupel: A shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonlymade of bone ashes (phosphate of lime). [Written also coppel.] Cupeldust, powder used in purifying metals.
cupellation: The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in acupel.
cupful: As much as a cup will hold.
cupid: The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked,winged boy with bow and arrow.Pretty dimpled boys, like smiling cupids. Shak.
cupola: A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also,a celing having the same form. When on a large scale it is usuallycalled dome.
cupper: One who performs the operation of cupping.
cupping: The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of theperson by forming a partial vacuum over the spot. Also, sometimes, asimilar operation for drawing pus from an abscess. Cupping glass, aglass cup in which a partial vacuum is produced by heat, in theprocess of cupping.-- Dry cupping, the application of a cupping instrument withoutscarification, to draw blood to the surface, produce counterirritation, etc.-- Wet cupping, the operation of drawing blood by the application ofa cupping instrument after scarification.
cupreous: Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery.
cupric: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper;-- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is presentin its lowest proportion.
cupriferous: Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver.
cuprite: The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore ofcopper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals.
cuproid: (Crystalloq.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and containedunder twelve equal triangles.
cuprous: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper;-- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is presentin its highest proportion.
cuprum: Copper.
cupulate: Having or bearing cupeles; cupuliferous.
cupule: A cuplet or little cup, as the acorn; the husk or bur of thefilbert, chestnut, etc.
cupuliferous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants ot whichthe oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth,solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnishedwith, a cupule.
curability: The state of being curable; curableness.
curable: Capable of being cured; admitting remedy. "Curable diseases."Harvey.-- Cur"a*ble*ness, n.-- Cur`a*bly, adv.
curacy: The office or employment of a curate.
curarine: A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from theStrychnos toxifera. It is obtained in crystalline colorless salts.
curarize: To poison with curare.
curassow: A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax,etc., of the family Cracidæ.
curat: A cuirass or breastplate. [Obs.] Spenser.
curate: One who has the cure souls; originally, any clergyman, but nowusually limited to one who assist a rector or vicar Hook.All this the good old man performed alone, He spared no pains, forcurate he had none. Dryden.
curateship: A curacy.
curation: Cure; healing. [Obs.] Chaucer.
curative: Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending tocure. Arbuthnot.
curatorship: The office of a curator.
curb: To bend; to crouch; to cringe. [Obs.]Virtue itself of vice must pardon beg, Yea, curb and woo for leave todo him good. Shak.
curb roof: A roof having a double slope, or composed, on each side, of twoparts which have unequal inclination; a gambrel roof.
curbless: Having no curb or restraint.
curbstone: A stone Curbstone broker.See under Broker.
curch: See Courche.
curculio: One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera;-- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs.Many of the species are very destructive, as the plum curculio, thecorn, grain, and rice weevils, etc.
curculionidous: Pertaining to the Curculionideæ, or weevil tribe.
curcuma: A genus of plants of the order Scitamineæ, including theturmeric plant (Curcuma longa). Curcuma paper. (Chem.) See Turmericpaper, under Turmeric.
curcumin: The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extractedas an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a greenfluorescence.
curd: To cause to coagulate or thicken; to cause to congeal; tocurdle.Does it curd thy blood To say I am thy mother Shak.
curdiness: The state of being curdy.
curdless: Destitute of curd.
curdy: Like curd; full of curd; coagulated. "A curdy mass." Arbuthnot.
cure: A curate; a pardon.
cureall: A remedy for all diseases, o
cureless: Incapable of cure; incurable.With patience undergo A cureless ill, since fate will have it so.Dryden.
curette: A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, forremoving substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear,or womb.
curia: The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; hisresidence or his household. Burrill.
curial: Of or pertaining to the papal curia; as, the curial etiquetteof the Vatican. -- n.
curialism: The wiew or doctrins of the ultramontane party in the LatinChurch. Gladstone.
curialist: One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.Shipley.
curiality: The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court. [Obs.]Bacon.
curiet: A cuirass. [Obs.] Spenser.
curing: p. a. & vb. n. of Cure. Curing house, a building in whichanything is cured; especially, in the West Indies, a building inwhich sugar is drained and dried.
curio: Any curiosity or article of virtu.The busy world, which does not hunt poets as collectors hunt forcurios. F. Harrison.
curiologic: Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing isrepresented by its picture instead of by a symbol.
curioso: A virtuoso.
curiously: In a curious manner.
curl: To shape (the brim) into a curve.
curled: Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maplehaving fibers which take a sinnuous course). Curled hair (Com.), thehair of the manes and tails of horses, prepared for upholsterypurposes. McElrath.
curledness: State of being curled; curliness.
curlew: A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long,slender, curved bill.
curliness: State of being curly.
curlingly: With a curl, or curls.
curly: Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples;crinkled.
curlycue: Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen onpaper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper.[Sometimes written carlicue.] [ Colloq. U.S.] To cut a curlycue, tomake a flourish; to cut a caper.I gave a flourishing about the room and cut a curlycue with my rightfoot. McClintock.
curmudgeon: An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.A gray-headed curmudgeon of a negro. W. Irving.
curmudgeonly: Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonlyfellow.
curmurring: Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumblingproduced by a slight attack of the gripes. [Scot.] Burns.
curr: To coo. [Scot.]The owlets hoot, the owlets curr. Wordsworth.
currant: A shrub or bush of several species of the genus Ribes (a genusalso including the gooseberry); esp., the Ribes rubrum. Blackcurrant,a shrub or bush (Ribes nigrum and R. floridum) and its black,strong-flavored, tonic fruit.-- Cherry currant, a variety of the red currant, having a strong,symmetrical bush and a very large berry.-- Currant borer (Zoöl.), the larva of an insect that bores into thepith and kills currant bushes; specif., the larvae of a smallclearwing moth (Ægeria tipuliformis) and a longicorn beetle(Psenocerus supernotatus).-- Currant worm (Zoöl.), an insect larva which eats the leaves orfruit of the currant. The most injurious are the currant sawfly(Nematus ventricosus), introduced from Europe, and the spanworm(Eufitchia ribearia). The fruit worms are the larva of a fly (EpochraCanadensis), and a spanworm (Eupithecia).-- Flowering currant, Missouri currant, a species of Ribes (R.aureum), having showy yellow flowers.
currently: In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currentlybelieved.
currie: See 2d & 3d Curry.
currier: One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned.
currish: Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of acur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, alsomalicious; malignant; brutal.Thy currish spirit Governed a wolf. Shak.Some currish plot, -- some trick. Lockhart.-- Cur"rish*ly, adv.-- Cur"rish*ness, n.
curry: A kind of sauce much used in India, containing garlic, pepper,ginger, and other strong spices.
currycomb: A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth orserrated ridges, used in curryng a horse.
curse: To utter imprecations or curses; to affirm or deny withimprecations; to swear.Then began he to curse and to swear. Matt. xxi. 74.His spirits hear me, And yet I need must curse. Shak.
cursed: Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable.Let us fly this cursed place. Milton.This cursed quarrel be no more renewed. Dryden.
cursedly: In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested;enormously. [Low]
curser: One who curses.
curship: The state of being a cur; one who is currish. [Jocose]How durst he, I say, oppose thy curship! Hudibras.
cursitating: Moving about slightly. [R.] H. Bushnell.
cursitor: An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to makeout original writs.
cursive: Running; flowing. Cursive hand,a running handwriting.
cursor: Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slidesbackward and forward upon another part.
cursorary: Cursory; hasty. [Obs.]With a cursorary eye o'erglanced the articles. Shak.
cursorily: In a running or hasty manner; carelessly.
cursoriness: The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as,cursoriness of view.
curst: imp. & p.p. of Curse.
curstfully: Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably. [Obs.] "Curstfully mad."Marston.
curstness: Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness.[Obs.] Shak.
curt: Characterized by exessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as,curt limits; a curt answer.The curt, yet comprehensive reply. W. Irving.
curtail: To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; toabridge; to diminish; to reduce.I, that am curtailed of this fair proportion. Shak.Our incomes have been curtailed; his salary has been doubled.Macualay.
curtail dog: A dog with a docked tail; formerly, the dog of a person notqualified to course, which, by the forest laws, must have its tailcut short, partly as a mark, and partly from a notion that the tailis necessary to a dog in running; hence, a dog not fit for sporting.Hope is a curtail dog in some affairs. Shak.
curtailer: One who curtails.
curtailment: The act or result of curtailing or cutting off. Bancroft.
curtain: That part of the rampart and parapet which is between twobastions or two gates. See Illustrations of Ravelin and Bastion.
curtal: Curt; brief; laconic.Essays and curtal aphorisms. Milton.Curtal dog. See Curtail dog.
curtal friar: A friar who acted as porter at the gate of a monastery. Sir W.Scott.
curtana: The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at theircoronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; --also called the sword of Edward the Confessor.
curtate: Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet fromthe sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or thedistance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular,let fall from the planet upon the plane of the ecliptic, meets theecliptic. Curtate cycloid. (Math.) See Cycloid.
curtation: The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is lessthan the true distance.
curtein: Same as Curtana.
curtes: Courteous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
curtesy: the life estate which a husband has in the lands of hisdeceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has hadissue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands. Mozley& W.
curtilage: A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within thefence surrounding a dwelling house. Burrill.
curtly: In a curt manner.
curtness: The quality of bing curt.
curtsy: Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.
curule: Of or pertaining to a kind of chair appropriated to Romanmagistrates and dignitaries; pertaining to, having, or conferring,the right to sit in the curule chair; hence, official.
cururo: A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.
curvation: The act of bending or crooking.
curvative: Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves.Henslow.
curvature: The amount of degree of bending of a mathematical curve, or thetendency at any point to depart from a tangent drawn to the curve atthat point. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curvefrom a curcular form. -Absolute curvature. See under Absolute.-- Angle of curvature (Geom.), one that expresses the amount ofcurvature of a curve.-- Chord of curvature. See under Chord.-- Circle of curvature. See Osculating circle of a curve, underCircle.-- Curvature of the spine (Med.), an abnormal curving of the spine,especially in a lateral direction.-- Radius of curvature, the radius of the circle of curvature, orosculatory circle, at any point of a curve.
curve: Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curvesurface.
curvedness: The state of being curved.
curvet: A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legsat once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raiseshis hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.
curvicaudate: Having a curved or crooked tail.
curvicostate: Having bent ribs.
curvidentate: Having curved teeth.
curviform: Having a curved form.
curvilinead: An instrument for drawing curved lines.
curvilinearity: The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curvedlines.
curvilinearly: In a curvilinear manner.
curvinerved: Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- calledalso curvinervate and curve-veined.
curvirostral: Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill.
curvirostres: A group of passerine birds, including the creepers andnuthatches.
curviserial: Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem.
curvity: The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form;crookedness. Holder.
curvograph: An arcograph.
cuscus: A soft grass (Pennisetum typhoideum) found in all tropicalregions, used as food for men and cattle in Central Africa.
cuscus oil: Same as Vetiver oil.
cushat: The ringdove or wood pigeon.Scarce with cushat's homely song can vie. Sir W. Scott.
cushewbird: The galeated curassow. See Curassow.
cushion tire: A thick solid-rubber tire, as for a bicycle, with a hollowgroove running lengthwise on the inside.
cushionet: A little cushion.
cushionless: Hot furnished with a cushion.Rows of long, cushionless benches, supplying the place of pews.Hawthorne.
cushiony: Like a cushion; soft; pliable.A flat and cushiony noce. Dickens.
cushite: A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.
cusk: A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to thecod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- calledalso tusk and torsk.
cuskin: A kind of drinking cup. [Obs.]
cusp: A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or froman inner curve of tracery.
cuspated: Ending in a point.
cuspid: One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one pointor cusp on the crown. See Tooth.
cuspidal: Ending in a point.
cuspidate: To make pointed or sharp.
cuspidor: Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid thecommon term, a spittoon of any sort.
cuspis: A point; a sharp end.
cussedness: Disposition to willful wrongdoing; malignity; perversity;cantankerousness; obstinacy. [Slang or Colloq., U. S.]
custard: A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.Custard apple (Bot.), a low tree or shrub of tropical America,including several species of Anona (A. squamosa, reticulata, etc.),having a roundish or ovate fruit the size of a small orange,containing a soft, yellowish, edible pulp.-- Custard coffin, pastry, or crust, which covers or coffins acustard [Obs.] Shak.
custode: See Custodian.
custodial: Relating to custody or guardianship.
custodian: One who has care or custody, as of some public building; akeeper or superintendent.
custodianship: Office or duty of a custodian.
custodier: A custodian. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
custom: Long-established practice, considered as unwritten law, andresting for authority on long consent; usage. See Usage, andPrescription.
customableness: Quality of being customable; conformity to custom. [Obs.]
customably: Usually. [Obs.] Milton.
customarily: In a customary manner; habitually.
customariness: Quality of being customary.
customary: Holding or held by custom; as, customary tenants; customaryservice or estate.
customhouse: The building where customs and duties are paid, and wherevessels are entered or cleared. Customhouse broker, an agent who actsfor merchants in the business of entering and clearing goods andvessels.
custos: A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent. [Obs.] Custosrotulorum (r Etym
custrel: An armor-bearer to a knight. [Obs.]
custumary: See Customary. [Obs.]
cutaneous: Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin;as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration.
cutaway: Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded orcut away. Cutaway coat, a coat whose skirts are cut away in front soas not to meet at the bottom.
cutch: See Catechu.
cutchery: A hindoo hall of justice. Malcom.
cute: Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning. [Colloq.]
cuteness: Acuteness; cunning. [Colloq.]
cutgrass: A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minutehooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species ofLeersia.
cuticle: The scarfskin or epidermis. See Skin.
cuticular: Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin;epidermal.
cutin: The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall,makes it waterproof, as in cork.
cutinization: The conversion of cell walls into a material which repelswater, as in cork.
cutinize: To change into cutin.
cutis: See Dermis.
cutlass: A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.Cutlass fish, (Zoöl.), a peculiar, long, thin, marine fish (Trichiruslepturus) of the southern United States and West Indies; -- calledalso saber fish, silver eel, and, improperly, swordfish.
cutler: One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cuttinginstruments.
cutlet: A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut forbroiling.
cutling: The art of making edged tools or cutlery. [Obs.] Milton.
cutose: A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membranecovering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essentialingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.
cutpurse: One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or theircontents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string totheir girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocketTo have an open ear, a quick eye, and a nimble hand, is necessary fora cutpurse. Shak.
cutthroat: One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin.
cuttingly: In a cutting manner.
cuttle: A knife. [Obs.] Bale.
cuttle bone: The shell or bone of cuttlefishes, used for various purposes,as for making polishing powder, etc.
cuttoo plate: A hood over the end of a wagon wheel hub to keep dirt away fromthe axle.
cutty: Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark. [Scot.]
cutwal: The chief police officer of a large city. [East Indies]
cutwater: A sea bird of the Atlantic (Rhynchops nigra); -- called alsoblack skimmer, scissorsbill, and razorbill. See Skimmer.
cutwork: An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliestform of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, fromwhich the manufacture of lace was developed.
cutworm: A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage,corn, etc., usually at the ground. Some kinds ascend fruit trees andeat off the flower buds. During the day, they conceal themselves inthe earth. The common cutworms are the larvæ of various species ofAgrotis and related genera of noctuid moths.
cuvette: A cunette. 3. (Spectrometry) (Analytical chemistry)
cyamelide: A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymericmodification of isocyanic acid.
cyamellone: A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, andknown chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.
cyanate: A salt of cyanic acid. Ammonium cyanate (Chem.), a remarkablewhite crystalline substance, NH4.O.CN, which passes, on standing, tothe organic compound, urea, CO.(NH)2.
cyanaurate: See Aurocyanide.
cyanean: Having an azure color. Pennant.
cyanide: A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element orradical.
cyanin: The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyanand anthocyanin.
cyanine: One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained fromquinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing.
cyanite: A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystallineaggregates, of a sky-blue color. It is a silicate of aluminium.[Written also kyanite.]
cyanogen: A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach-blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds;obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It isobtained in combination, forming an alkaline cyanide when nitrogen ora nitrogenous compound is strongly ignited with carbon and soda orpotash. It conducts itself like a member of the halogen group ofelements, and shows a tendency to form complex compounds. The name isalso applied to the univalent radical, CN (the half molecule ofcyanogen proper), which was one of the first compound radicalsrecognized.
cyanometer: An instrument for measuring degress of blueness.
cyanopathy: A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface,arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes animperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice.
cyanophyll: A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of thecomponent parts ofchlorophyll.
cyanosed: Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis ordeficient a
cyanosis: A condition in which, from insufficient aCyanopathy.
cyanosite: Native sulphate of copper. Cf. Blue vitriol, under Blue.
cyanotic: Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanoticpatient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanitic skin.
cyanotype: A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide.
cyanurate: A salt of cyanuric acid.
cyanuret: A cyanide. [Obs.]
cyanuric: Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.
cyanuric acid: an organic acid, C3O3N3H3, first obtained by heating uric acidor urea, and called pyrouric acid; afterwards obtained from isocyanicacid. It is a white crystalline substance, odorless and almosttasteless; -- called also tricarbimide.
cyathiform: In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top.
cyatholith: A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cupwidened at the top, and varies in size from
cyathophylloid: Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidæ.
cycad: Any plant of the natural order Cycadeceæ, as the sago palm,etc.
cycadaceous: Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like thepalms, but having exogenous wood. The sago palm is an example.
cycas: A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palmsand the pines. The pith of the trunk of some species furnishes avaluable kind of sago.
cyclamen: A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressedrounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexedas to point upwards, whence it is called rabbit's ears. It is alsocalled sow bread, because hogs are said to eat the corms.
cyclamin: A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extractedfrom the corm of Cyclamen Europæum.
cyclas: A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the MiddleAges. It was sometimes embroidered or interwoven with gold. Also, arich stuff from which the gown was made.
cycle: One entire round in a circle or a spire; as, a cycle or set ofleaves. Gray.
cyclide: A surface of the fourth degree, having certain specialrelations to spherical surfaces. The tore or anchor ring is one ofthe cyclides.
cycling: The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle ortricycle.
cyclist: A cycler.
cyclo-: A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.
cyclobranchiate: Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certainlimpets.
cycloganoid: Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.
cycloganoidei: An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales. The bowfin(Amia calva) is a living example.
cyclograph: See Arcograph.
cycloid: A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when thecircle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the sameplane.
cycloidal: Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidalspace is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.Cycloidal engine. See Geometric lathe.
cycloidei: An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for thosewith thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as theherring and salmon. The group is now regarded as artificial.
cycloidian: Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.
cyclometer: A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of abicycle.
cyclometry: The art of measuring circles.
cyclone: A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by highwinds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure. Thiscenter moves onward, often with a velocity of twenty or thirty milesan hour.
cyclonic: Pertaining to a cyclone.
cyclonoscope: An apparatus to assist in locating the center of a cyclone.
cyclop: See Note under Cyclops, 1.
cyclopean: Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge;gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopeanarchitecture.
cyclopedic: Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; ofthe nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount;as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.
cyclopedist: A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.
cyclopic: Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.
cyclops: One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, havingbut one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead. They were fabledto inhabit Sicily, and to assist in the workshops of Vulcan, underMt. Etna.
cyclorama: A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that thespectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things innature. The realistic effect is increased by putting, in the spacebetween the spectator and the picture, things adapted to the scenerepresented, and in some places only parts of these objects, thecompletion of them being carried out pictorially.
cycloscope: A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, asof a wheel of a steam engine. Knight.
cyclosis: The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within aliving vegetable cell.
cyclostomata: Defn:
cyclostome: A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circularapertures.
cyclostomi: A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, asthe lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.
cyclostylar: Relating to a structure composed of a circular range ofcolumns, without a core or building within. Weale.
cyclostyle: A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing ordrawing. The writing or drawing is done with a style carrying a smallwheel at the end which makes minute punctures in the paper, thusconverting it into a stencil. Copies are transferred with an inkedroller.
cyder: See Cider. [Archaic]
cydonin: A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds ofthe quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.
cygnet: A young swan. Shak.
cygnus: A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, orfollowing, Lyra; the Swan.
cylindraceous: Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.
cylindrically: In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.
cylindricity: The quality or condition of being cylindrical.
cylindriform: Having the form of a cylinder.
cylindroid: A certain surface of the third degree, described by a movingstraight line; -- used to illustrate the motions of a rigid body andalso the forces acting on the body.
cylindrometric: Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.
cyma: A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which iswavelike in form.
cymar: A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar.Her body shaded with a light cymar. Dryden.
cymatium: A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.
cymbalist: A performer upon cymbals.
cymbiform: Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the uppersurface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.
cymbium: A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.
cyme: A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal ordeterminate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of theopening of the blossoms.
cymene: A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, ofpleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol,camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.
cymenol: See Carvacrol.
cymidine: A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.
cymiferous: Producing cymes.
cymogene: A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure fromthe first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used forproducing low temperatures.
cymograph: To trace or copy with a cymograph.
cymoid: Having the form of a cyme.
cymometer: An instrument for exhibiting and measuring wave motion; specif.(Elec.),
cymophane: See Chrysoberyl.
cymophanous: Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.
cymoscope: Any device for detecting the presence of electric waves. Theinfluence of electric waves on the resistance of a particular kind ofelectric circuit, on the magnetization of steel, on the polarizationof an electrolytic cell, or on the electric condition of a vacuum hasbeen applied in the various cymoscopes.
cymric: Welsh.-- n.
cymry: A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called bythemselves . [Written also Cymri, Cwmry, Kymry, etc.]
cymule: A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.
cynanche: Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended withinflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.
cynanthropy: A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed intodogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.
cynarctomachy: Bear baiting with a dog. Hudibras.
cynarrhodium: A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed ofthe calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.
cynegetics: The art of hunting with dogs.
cynically: In a cynical manner.
cynicalness: The quality of being cynical.
cynicism: The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; themental state, opnions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose andcontemptuous views and opinions.
cynoidea: A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.
cynorexia: A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.
cynosural: Of or pertaining to a cynosure.
cyon: See Cion, and Scion.
cyperaceous: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants ofwhich the sedge is the type.
cyperus: A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, andincluding the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and theEgyptian papyrus.
cypher: See Cipher.
cyphonautes: The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.
cyphonism: A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in thebesmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects.It is still in use among some Oriental nations.
cypraea: A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.
cypres: A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform asnearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.Mozley & W.
cypress: A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus. The species aremostly evergreen, and have wood remarkable for its durability.
cyprine: Of or pertaining to the cypress.
cyprinodont: One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including thekillifishes or minnows. See Minnow.
cyprinoid: Like the carp (Cyprinus).-- n.
cypriot: A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.
cypripedium: A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.
cypris: A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging tothe Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.
cyprus: A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to,crape. It was either white or black, the latter being most common,and used for mourning. [Obs.]Lawn as white as driven snow, Cyprus black as e'er was crow. Shak.
cypruslawn: Same as Cyprus. Milton.
cypsela: A one-seeded, one-called, indehiscent fruit; an achene with thecalyx tube adherent.
cypseliform: Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidæ.)
cyrenaic: Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa,and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophyfounded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene.-- n.
cyrenian: Pertaining to Cyrene, in Africa; Cyrenaic.
cyriologic: Relating to capital letters.
cyrtostyle: A circular projecting portion.
cyst: One of the bladders or air vessels of certain algæ, as of thegreat kelp of the Pacific, and common rockweeds (Fuci) of our shores.D. C. Eaton.
cysted: Inclosed in a cyst.
cystic: Pertaining to, or contained in, a cyst; esp., pertaining to, orcontained in, either the urinary bladder or the gall bladder. Cysticduct, the duct from the gall bladder which unites with the hepatic toform the common bile duct.-- Cystic worm (Zoöl.), a larval tape worm, as the cysticercus andechinococcus.
cysticule: An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes. Owen.
cystid: One of the Cystidea.
cystidea: An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks.They were usually roundish or egg-shaped, and often unsymmetrical;some were sessile, others had short stems.
cystidean: One of the Cystidea.
cystine: A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur,occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, andoccasionally found as a sediment in urine.
cystis: A cyst. See Cyst.
cystitis: Inflammation of the bladder.
cystocarp: A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains thereproductive spores.
cystocele: Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.
cystoidea: Same as Cystidea.
cystolith: A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of aplant.
cystolithic: Relating to stone in the bladder.
cystoplast: A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a redblood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.
cystose: Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.
cystotome: A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.
cystotomy: The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation ofcutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.
cytherean: Pertaining to the goddess Venus.
cytoblast: The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of acellule, through or in which cell development takes place.
cytoblastema: See Protoplasm.
cytococcus: The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell. Hæckel.
cytode: A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest formof independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei arepresent.
cytogenesis: Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. SeeGemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.
cytogenous: Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid,tissue.
cytogeny: Cell production or development; cytogenesis.
cytoid: Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle,etc.
cytoplasm: The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from thekaryoplasma, or substance of the nucleus.-- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a.
cytula: The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development ofwhich the child or other organism is formed. Hæckel.
czar: A king; a chief; the title of the emperor of Russia. [Writtenalso tzar.]
czarevna: The title of the wife of the czarowitz.
czarina: The title of the empress of Russia.
czarinian: Of or pertaining to the czar or the czarina; czarish.
czarish: Of or pertaining to the czar.
czarowitz: The title of the eldest son of the czar of Russia.
czechic: Of or pertaining to the Czechs. "One Czechic realm." TheNation.
czechs: The most westerly branch of the great Slavic family of nations,numbering now more than 6,000,000, and found principally in Bohemiaand Moravia.
d: The nominal of the second tone in the model major scale (thatin C), or of the fourth tone in the relative minor scale of C (thatin A minor), or of the key tone in the relative minor of F.
d valve: A kind of slide valve. See Slide valve, under Slide.
dab: A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert. [Colloq.]One excels at a plan or the titlepage, another works away at the bodyof the book, and the therd is a dab at an index. Goldsmith.
dabb: A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found inEgypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.
dabber: That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used byprinters, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plateswith ink.
dabble: To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; tomoisten; to wet. "Bright hair dabbled in blood." Shak.
dabblingly: In a dabbling manner.
dabchick: A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes,remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick,dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, andpied-billed grebe.
daboia: A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).
dabster: One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; anadept. [Colloq.]
dacapo: From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, thefirst strain; -- indicated by the letters D. C. Also, the strain sorepeated.
dace: A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus orLeuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.
dachshund: One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and longbody; -- called also badger dog. There are two kinds, the rough-haired and the smooth-haired.
dacian: Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians.-- n.
dacoit: One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.
dacoity: The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed bydacoits.
dacotahs: Same as Dacotas. Longfellow.
dactyl: A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followedby two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L.tëgmînê, E. mer"ciful; -- so called from the similarity of itsarrangement to that of the joints of a finger. [Written alsodactyle.]
dactylar: Of or pertaining to a finger or toe, or to the claw of aninsect crustacean.
dactylet: A dactyl. [Obs.]
dactylic: Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as,dactylic verses.
dactylioglyphy: The art or process of gem engraving.
dactyliomancy: Divination by means of finger rings.
dactylist: A writer of dactylic verse.
dactylitis: An inflammatory affection of the fingers. Gross.
dactylology: The art of communicating ideas by certain movements andpositions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by thedeaf and dumb.
dactylomancy: Dactylio mancy. [R.] Am. Cyc.
dactylonomy: The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.
dactylopterous: Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially orentirely free, as in the gurnards.
dactylotheca: The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.
dactylozooid: A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or evenvermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth. See Siphonophora.
dad: Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.I was never so bethumped withwords, Since I first called my brother'sfather dad. Shak.
daddle: To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man;hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.
daddock: The rotten body of a tree. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
daddy: Diminutive of Dad. Dryden.
daddy longlegs: An arachnidan of the genus Phalangium, and allied genera,having a small body and four pairs of long legs; -- called alsoharvestman, carter, and grandfather longlegs.
dade: To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child whilehe toddles. [Obs.]Little children when they learn to go By painful mothers daded to andfro. Drayton.
daedalous: Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.
daff: To cast aside; to put off; to doff. [Obs.]Canst thou so daff me Thou hast killed my child. Shak.
daftness: The quality of being daft.
dag: The unbrunched antler of a young deer.
dag-tailed: Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks. "Dag-tailed sheep." Bp. Hall.
dagger: A mark of reference in the form of a dagger [|]. It is thesecond in order when more than one reference occurs on a page; --called also obelisk. Dagger moth (Zoöl.), any moth of the genusApatalea. The larvæ are often destructive to the foliage of fruittrees, etc.-- Dagger of lath, the wooden weapon given to the Vice in the oldMoralities. Shak.-- Double dagger, a mark of reference [||] which comes next in orderafter the dagger.-- To look, or speak, daggers, to look or speak fiercely orreproachfully.
dagges: An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introducedabout a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans. [Obs.]Halliwell.
daggle: To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; tomoisten.The warrior's very plume, I say, Was daggled by the dashing spray.Sir W. Scott.
daggle-tail: A slovenly woman; a slattern; a draggle-tail.
daglock: A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.
dago: A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension,Portuguese or Italian) descent. [U. S.]
dagoba: A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or someBuddhist saint. [East Indies]
dagon: The national god of the Philistines, represented with the faceand hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish. W. Smith.This day a solemn feast the people hold To Dagon, their sea idol.Milton.They brought it into the house of Dagon. 1 Sam. v. 2.
dagswain: Acoarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool."Under coverlets made of dagswain." Holinshed.
daguerreotype: One who takes daguerreotypes.
daguerreotypy: The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.
dahabeah: A nile boat
dahlia: A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of theorder Compositæ; also, any plant or flower of the genus. The numerousvarieties of cultivated dahlias bear conspicuous flowers which differin color.
dahlin: A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called alsoinulin. See Inulin.
dahoon: An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southernUnited States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close-grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly.
dailiness: Daily occurence. [R.]
daily: Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as,daily labor; a daily bulletin.Give us this day our daily bread. Matt. vi. 11.Bunyan has told us . . . that in New England his dream was the dailysubject of the conversation of thousands. Macaulay.
daimio: The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.daimyoThe daimios, or territorial nobles, resided in Yedo and were dividedinto four classes. Am. Cyc.
daint: Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. [Obs.] -- a.
daintify: To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious. "Daintifiedemotion." Sat. rev.
daintily: In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously;deliciously; prettily.
daintiness: The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance;delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.The daintiness and niceness of our captains Hakluyt.More notorious for the daintiness of the provision . . . than for themassiveness of the dish. Hakewill.The duke exeeded in the daintiness of his leg and foot, and the earlin the fine shape of his hands, Sir H. Wotton.
daintrel: Adelicacy. [Obs.] Halliwell.
daira: Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or hisfamily. The most important are the Da"i*ra Sa"ni*eh, or Sa"ni*yeh,and the Da"i*ra Khas"sa, administered by the khedive's Europeanbondholders, and known collectively as the Daira, or the Dairaestates.
dairying: The business of conducting a dairy.
dairymaid: A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.
dairyman: A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.
dairywoman: A woman who attends to a dairy.
daisied: Full of daisies; adorned with daisies. "The daisied green."Langhorne.The grass all deep and daisied. G. Eliot.
dak: Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- speltalso dawk, and dauk. [India] Dak boat, a mail boat. Percy Smith.-- Dak bungalow, a traveler's rest-house at the and of a dak stage.-- To travel by dak, to travel by relays of palanquines or othercarriage, as fast as the post along a road.
daker hen: The corncrake or land rail.
dakota group: A subdivision at the base of the cretaceous formation inWestern North America; -- so named from the region where the stratawere first studied.
dakotas: An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes,mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part,called Sioux. [Written also Dacotahs.]
dal: Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus. [East Indies]
dal segno: A direction to go back to the sign Segno.
dalesman: One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to theinhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc.Macaulay.
dalf: imp. of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dalles: A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rockwalls. [Northwestern U. S. & Canada]
dallier: One Who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.Asham.
dallop: A tuft or clump. [Obs.] Tusser.
dally: To delay unnecessarily; to while away.Dallying off the time with often skirmishes. Knolles.
dalmania: A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the UpperSilurian and Devonian rocks.
dalmanites: Same as Dalmania.
dalmatian: Of or pertaining to Dalmatia. Dalmatian dog (Zoöl.), a carriagedog, shaped like a pointer, and having black or bluish spots on awhite ground; the coach dog.
daltonian: One afflicted with color blindness.
daltonism: Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red;color blindness. It has various forms and degrees. So called from thechemist Dalton, who had this infirmity. Nichol.
dam: A firebrick wall, or a stone, which forms the front of thehearth of a blast furnace. Dam plate (Blast Furnace), an iron platein front of the dam, to strengthen it.
damage: The estimated reparation in money for detriment or injurysustained; a compensation, recompense, or satisfaction to one party,for a wrong or injury actually done to him by another.
damage feasant: Doing injury; trespassing, as cattle. Blackstone.
daman: A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax. The speciesfound in Palestine and Syria is Hyrax Syriacus; that of NorthernAfrica is H. Brucei; -- called also ashkoko, dassy, and rock rabbit.See Cony, and Hyrax.
damar: See Dammar.
damara: A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa. The Damarasinclude an important and warlike Bantu tribe, and the Hill Damaras,who are Hottentots and mixed breeds hostile to the Bantus.
damascene: Of or relating to Damascus.
damascus: A city of Syria. Damascus blade, a sword or scimiter, madechiefly at Damascus, having a variegated appearance of watering, andproverbial for excellence.-- Damascus iron, or Damascus twist, metal formed of thin bars orwires of iron and steel elaborately twisted and welded together; usedfor making gun barrels, etc., of high quality, in which the surface,when polished and acted upon by acid, has a damasc appearance.-- Damascus steel. See Damask steel, under Damask, a.
damascus steel: See Damask steel, under Damask.
damask: To decorate in a way peculiar to Damascus or attributed toDamascus; particularly
damaskin: A sword of Damask steel.No old Toledo blades or damaskins. Howell
damasse: Woven like damask.-- n.
damassin: A kind of modified damask or blocade.
dambonite: A white crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an Africancaotchouc.
dambose: A crystalline vari ety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.
damewort: A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for itsfragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called alsorocket and dame's violet. Loudon.
damiana: A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.
damianist: A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6thcentury, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the HolyTrinity.
dammara: A large tree of the order Coniferæ, indigenous to the EastIndies and Australasia; -- called also Agathis. There are severalspecies.
damn: To doom to punishment in the future world; to consign toperdition; to curse.
damnability: The quality of being damnable; damnableness. Sir T. More.
damnableness: The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.The damnableness of this most execrable impiety. Prynne.
damnation: Condemnation to everlasting punishment in the future state, orthe punishment itself.How can ye escape the damnation of hell Matt. xxiii. 33.Wickedness is sin, and sin is damnation. Shak.
damnatory: Doo "Damnatory invectives." Hallam.
damnific: Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.
damnification: That which causes damage or loss.
damnify: To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to imparir. [R.]This work will ask as many more officials to make expurgations andexpunctions, that the commonwealth of learning be not damnified.Milton.
damning: That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.
damningness: Tendency to bring damnation. "The damningness of them [sins]."Hammond.
damnum: Harm; detriment, either to character or property.
damourite: A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.
damp: A gaseous prodact, formed in coal mines, old wells, pints, etc.Choke damp, a damp consisting principally of carboniCarbonic acid,under Carbonic.-- Damp sheet, a curtain in a mine gallery to direct air currentsand prevent accumulation of gas.-- Fire damp, a damp consisting chiefly of light carburetedhydrogen; -- so called from its tendence to explode when mixed withatmospheric air and brought into contact with flame.
damp off: To decay and perish through excessive moisture.
dampen: To become damp; to deaden. Byron.
damper: That which damps or checks; as
dampish: Moderately damp or moist.-- Damp"ish*ly, adv.-- Damp"ish*ness, n.
dampne: To damn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dampness: Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.
damsel: An attachment to a millstone spindle for shaking the hoppe
damson: A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety ofthe Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.
dan: A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir. [Obs.]Old Dan Geoffry, in gently spright The pure wellhead of poetry diddwell. Spenser.What time Dan Abraham left the Chaldee land. Thomson.
danaide: A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outertapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually toboth shells, but sometimes only to one.
danaite: A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.
danalite: A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of areddish color. It is a silicate of iron, zinc manganese, andglicinum, containing sulphur.
danburite: A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn. It isnear the topaz in form. Dana.
dance: To cause to dance, or move nimbly or merrily about, or up anddown; to dandle.To dance our ringlets to the whistling wind. Shak.Thy grandsire loved thee well; Many a time he danced thee on hisknee. Shak.To dance attendance, to come and go obsequiously; to be or remain inwaiting, at the beck and call of another, with a view to please orgain favor.A man of his place, and so near our favor, To dance attendance ontheir lordships' pleasure. Shak.
dancer: One who dances or who practices dancing. The merry dancers,beams of the northern lights when they rise and fall alternatelywithout any considerable change of length. See Aurora borealis, underAurora.
danceress: A female dancer. [Obs.] Wyclif.
dancette: Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancetté hasonly three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.
dancing: from Dance. Dancing girl, one of the women in the East Indieswhose profession is to dance in the temples, or for the amusement ofspectators. There are various classes of dancing girls.-- Dancing master, a teacher of dancing.-- Dancing school, a school or place where dancing is taught.
dancy: Same as Dancetté.
dandelion: A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale,formerly called T. Dens-leonis and Leontodos Taraxacum) bearinglarge, yellow, compound flowers, and deeply notched leaves.
dander: To wander about; to saunter; to talk incoherently. [Prov. Eng.]Halliwell.
dandi: A boatman; an oarsman. [India]
dandie: One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also DandieDinmont.
dandified: Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy;buckish.
dandify: To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.
dandler: One who dandles or fondles.
dandriff: See Dandruff. Swift.
dandruff: A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small orparticles. [Written also dandriff.]
dandy: A bantam fowl.
dandyish: Like a dandy.
dandyism: The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness. Byron.
dandyling: A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.
dane: A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark. Great Dane.(Zoöl.) See Danish dog, under Danish.
danewort: A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarfelder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, andDane's-blood.
dang: imp. of Ding. [Obs.]
danger: To endanger. [Obs.] Shak.
dangerful: Full of danger; dangerous. [Obs.] -- Dan"ger*ful*ly, adv.[Obs.] Udall.
dangerless: Free from danger. [R.]
dangle: To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion.he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, towrangle. Hudibras.From her lifted hand Dangled a length of ribbon. Tennyson.To dangle about or after, to hang upon importunately; to court thefavor of; to beset.The Presbyterians, and other fanatics that dangle after them, arewell inclined to pull down the present establishment. Swift.
dangleberry: A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub(Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry. Thebush is also called blue tangle, and is found from New England toKentucky, and southward.
dangler: One who dangles about or after others, especially after women;a trifler. " Danglers at toilets." Burke.
daniel: A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness ofjudgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.A Daniel come to judgment. Shak.
danish: Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country.-- n.
danite: One of a secret association of Mormons, bound by an oath toobey the heads of the church in all things. [U. S.]
dank: Damp; moist; humid; wet.Now that the fields are dank and ways are mire. Milton.Cheerless watches on the cold, dank ground. Trench.
dankish: Somewhat dank.-- Dank"ish*ness, n.In a dark and dankish vault at home. Shak.
dannebrog: The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures ofcross and crown. Order of Dannebrog, an ancient Danish order ofknighthood.
danseuse: a professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a publicexhibition as in a ballet.
dansk: Danish. [Obs.]
dansker: A Dane. [Obs.]Inquire me first what Danskers are in Paris. Shak.
dantean: Relatingto, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or hiswritings.
dantesque: Dantelike; Dantean. Earle.
danubian: Pertainingto, or bordering on, the river Danube.
dap: To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.To catch a club by dapping with a grasshoper. Walton.
dapatical: Sumptuous in cheer. [Obs.] Bailey.
daphne: A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and withfragrant blossoms.
daphnetin: A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted fromdaphnin.
daphnia: A genus of the genus Daphnia.
daphnomancy: Divination by means of the laurel.
dapifer: One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, theofficial title of the grand master or steward of the king's or anobleman's household.
dapper: Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress orappearance; lively.He wondered how so many provinces could be held in subjection by sucha dapper little man. Milton.The dapper ditties that I wont devise. Spenser.Sharp-nosed, dapper steam yachts. Julian Hawthorne.
dapperling: A dwarf; a dandiprat. [r.]
dapple: One of the spots on a dappled animal.He has . . . as many eyes on his body as my gray mare hath dapples.Sir P. Sidney.
darbies: Manacles; handcuffs. [Cant]Jem Clink will fetch you the darbies. Sir W. Scott.
darby: A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothingceilings, etc.
darbyite: One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- socalled from John N. Darby, one of the leaders of the Brethren.
dardanian: Trojan.
dare: To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to bebold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.I dare do all that may become a man; Who dares do more is none. Shak.Why then did not the ministers use their new law Bacause they durstnot, because they could not. Macaulay.Who dared to sully her sweet love with suspicion. Thackeray.The tie of party was stronger than the tie of blood, because apartisan was more ready to dare without asking why. Jowett (Thu
dare-devil: A reckless fellow. Also used adjectively; as, dare-devilexcitement.A humorous dare-devil -- the very man To suit my prpose. Ld. Lytton.
dare-deviltry: Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.
dareful: Full af daring or of defiance; adveturous. [R.] Shak.
darer: One who dares or defies.
daring: Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act.
dark: A dark shade or dark passage in a painting, engraving, or thelike; as, the light and darks are well contrasted.The lights may serve for a repose to the darks, and the darks to thelights. Dryden.
darken: To grow or darker.
darkener: One who, or that which, darkens.
darkening: Twilight; gloaming. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Wright.
darkful: Full of darkness. [Obs.]
darkish: Somewhat dark; dusky.
darkle: To grow dark; to show indistinctly. Thackeray.
darkling: In the dark. [Poetic]So, out went the candle, and we were left darkling. Shak.As the wakeful bird Sings darkling. Milton.
darksome: Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless. [Poetic]He brought him through a darksome narrow pass To a broad gate, allbuilt of beaten gold. Spenser.
darky: A negro. [Sleng]
darling: One dearly beloved; a favorite.And can do naught but wail her darling's loss. Shak.
darlingtonia: A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a singlespecies. The long tubular leaves are hooded at the top, andfrequently contain many insects drowned in the secretion of theleaves.
darn: To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn orthread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread.He spent every day ten hours in his closet, in darning his stockins.Swift.Darning last. See under Last.-- Darning needle. (a) A long, strong needle for mending holes orrents, especially in stockings. (b) (Zoöl.) Any species of dragonfly, having a long, cylindrical body, resembling a needle. Theseflies are harmless and without stings.
darnel: Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum(bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous.Other species, as Lolium perenne (rye grass or ray grass), and itsvariety L. Italicum (Italian rye grass), are highly esteemed forpasture and for making hay.
darner: One who mends by darning.
daroo: The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore.
darr: The European black tern.
darrein: Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance.
dart: A fish; the dace. See Dace. Dart sac (Zoöl.), a sac connectedwith the reproductive organs of land snails, which contains a dart,or arrowlike structure.
dartars: A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs.
darter: The snakebird, a water bird of the genus Plotus; -- so calledbecause it darts out its long, snakelike neck at its prey. SeeSnakebird.
dartingly: Like a dart; rapidly.
dartle: To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly
dartoic: Of or pertaining to the dartos.
dartoid: Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.
dartos: A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneaththe skin of the scrotum.
dartrous: Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease calledtetter; herpetic. Dartroud diathesis, A morbid condition of thesystem predisposing to the development of certain skin deseases, suchas eczema, psoriasis, and pityriasis. Also called rheumic diathesis,and hipretism. Piffard.
darwinian: Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of themanner and cause of the supposed development of living things fromcertain original forms or elements.
darwinianism: Darwinism.
darwinism: The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above. Huxley.
dase: See Daze. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dasewe: To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled. [Obs.]Chauscer.
dash: To rust with violence; to move impetuously; to strikeviolently; as, the waves dash upon rocks.[He] dashed through thick and thin. Dryden.On each hand the gushing waters play, And down the rough cascade alldashing fall. Thomson.
dasheen: A tropical aroid (of the genus Caladium, syn. Colocasia) havingan edible farinaceous root. It is related to the taro and to thetanier, but is much superior to it in quality and is as easily cookedas the potato. It is a staple food plant of the tropics, beingprepared like potatoes, and has been introduced into the SouthernUnited States.
dashing: Bold; spirited; showy.The dashing and daring spirit is preferable to the listless. T.Campbell.
dashingly: Conspicuously; showily. [Colloq.]A dashingly dressed gentleman. Hawthorne.
dashism: The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade orshow. [R. & Colloq.]He must fight a duel before his claim to . . . dashism can beuniversally allowed. V. Knox.
dashpot: A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as inthe valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.
dashy: Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable;showy. [Colloq.]
dastard: One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; apoltroon.You are all recreants and dashtards, and delight to live in slaveryto the nobility. Shak.
dastardize: To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardizemy courage. Dryden.
dastardliness: The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear.
dastardly: Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage.
dastardness: Dastardliness.
dastardy: Base timidity; cowardliness.
daswe: See Dasewe [Obs.] Chaucer.
dasymeter: An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of athin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then inan atmosphere of known density.
dasypaedal: Dasypædic.
dasypaedes: Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched.
dasypaedic: Pertaining to the Dasypædes; ptilopædic.
dasyure: A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging tothe genus Dasyurus. There are several species.
dasyurine: Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures.
data: See Datum.
datable: That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date."Datable almost to a year." The Century.
dataria: Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate officefrom which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo,such as appointments to benefices. The name is derived from the worddatum, given or dated (with the indications of the time and place ofgranting the gift or favor).
datary: An officer in the pope's court, having charge of the Dataria.
date: The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.
date line: The hypothetical line on the surface of the earth fixed byinternational or general agreement as a boundary on one side of whichthe same day shall have a different name and date in the calendarfrom its name and date on the other side.
dateless: Without date; having no fixed time.
dater: One who dates.
datiscin: A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp(Datisca cannabina).
dative: Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object,and is generally indicated in English by to or for with theobjective.
datively: As a gift. [R.]
datolite: A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenishcrystals. [Written also datholite.]
datum: The quantities or relations which are assumed to be given inany problem. Datum line (Surv.), the horizontal or base line, fromwhich the heights of points are reckoned or measured, as in the planof a railway, etc.
datura: A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowersand a four-celled, capsular fruit.
daturine: Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina.
daub: To smear; to play the flatterer.His conscience . . . will not daub nor flatter. South.
dauber: A pad or ball of rags, covered over with canvas, for inkingplates; a dabber.
daubreelite: A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons.
dauby: Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive. "Dauby wax."
daughter-in-law: The wife of one's son.
daughterliness: The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter.
daughterly: Becoming a daughter; filial.Sir Thomas liked her natural and dear daughterly affection towardshim. Cavendish.
dauk: See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush.
daun: A variant of Dan, a title of honor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
daunter: One who daunts.
dauntless: Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless;intrepid.Dauntless he rose, and to the fight returned. Dryden.-- Daunt"less*ly, adv.-- Daunt"less*ness, n.
dauphin: The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir tothe crown. Since the revolution of 1830, the title has beendiscontinued.
dauw: The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa(Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi.
davenport: A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental,and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir.A much battered davenport in one of the windows, at which sat a ladywriting. A. B. Edwards.
davidic: Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, orto his family.
davit: Curved arms of timber or iron, projecting over a ship's side ofstern, having tackle to raise or lower a boat, swing it in on deck,rig it out for lowering, etc.; -- called also boat davits. Totten.
davy jones: The spirit of the sea; sea devil; -- a term used by sailors.This same Davy Jones, according to the mythology of sailors, is thefiend that presides over all the evil spirits of the deep, and isseen in various shapes warning the devoted wretch of death and woe.Smollett.Davy Jones's Locker, the ocean, or bottom of the ocean.-- Gone to Davy Jones's Locker, dead, and buried in the sea; thrownoverboard.
davy lamp: See Safety lamp, under Lamp.
davyne: A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.
davyum: A rare metallic element found in platinum ore. It is a whitemalleable substance. Symbol Da. Atomic weight 154.
daw: A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), oftennesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw.The loud daw, his throat displaying, draw The whole assembly of hisfellow daws. Waller.
dawdle: To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.Come some evening and dawdle over a dish of tea with me. Johnson.We . . . dawdle up and down Pall Mall. Thackeray.
dawdler: One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; atrifler.
dawe: Day. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dawish: Like a daw.
dawk: See Dak.
dawsonite: A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white,bladed crustals.
day-coal: The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface.
day-labor: Labor hired or performed by the day. Milton.
day-laborer: One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer,or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade. Goldsmith.
day-net: A net for catching small birds.
day-peep: The dawn. [Poetic] Milton.
dayaks: See Dyaks.
daybook: A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which arerecorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in theirorder, and from which they are transferred to the journal.
daybreak: The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.
daydream: A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air;unfounded hope.Mrs. Lambert's little daydream was over. Thackeray.
daydreamer: One given to draydreams.
dayflower: A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs(Commelina), having ephemeral flowers.
dayfly: A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera,of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; theephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day inthe winged or adult state. See Ephemeral fly, under Ephemeral.
daylight: The eyes. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
daymaid: A dairymaid. [Obs.]
daymare: A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended bythe peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare.Dunglison.
daysman: An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.Neither is there any daysman betwixt us. Job ix. 33.
dayspring: The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; thedawn; hence, the beginning. Milton.The tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hathvisited us. Luke i. 78.
daytime: The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished fromthe night.
daywoman: A dairymaid. [Obs.]
daze: To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, orwith fear; to confuse; to benumb.While flashing beams do daze his feeble eyen. Spenser.Such souls, Whose sudden visitations daze the world. Sir H. Taylor.He comes out of the room in a dazed state, that is an odd though asufficient substitute for interest. Dickens.
dazzle: A light of dazzling brilliancy.
dazzlement: Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light. Donne.
dazzlingly: In a dazzling manner.
de bene esse: Of well being; of formal sufficiency for the time;conditionally; provisionally. Abbott.
de facto: Actually; in fact; in reality; as, a king de facto, --distinguished from a king de jure, or by right.
de jure: By right; of right; by law; -- often opposed to be facto.
de rigueur: According to strictness (of etiquette, rule, or the like);obligatory; strictly required.
de-: A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline,decease, deduct, decamp. In words from the French it is equivalent toLatin dis- apart, away; or sometimes to de. Cf. Dis-. It is negativeand opposite in derange, deform, destroy, etc. It is intensive indeprave, despoil, declare, desolate, etc.
deacon: An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certainsubordinate duties varying in different communions. In the RomanCatholic and Episcopal churches, a person admitted to the lowestorder in the ministry, subordinate to the bishops and priests. InPresbyterian churches, he is subordinate to the minister and elders,and has charge of certain duties connected with the communion serviceand the care of the poor. In Congregational churches, he issubordinate to the pastor, and has duties as in the Presbyterianchurch.
deaconess: A female deacon; as:(a) (Primitive Ch.) One of an order of women whose duties resembledthose of deacons. (b) (Ch. of Eng. and Prot. Epis. Ch.)
deaconhood: The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship.
deaconry: See Deaconship.
deaconship: The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.
dead: Cut off from the rights of a citizen; deprived of the power ofenjoying the rights of property; as, one banished or becoming a monkis civilly dead.
dead beat: See Beat, n., 7. [Low, U.S.]
dead-eye: A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or aniron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; --used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes. Calledalso deadman's eye. Totten.
dead-pay: Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names arekept on the rolls.O you commanders, That, like me, have no dead-pays. Massinger.
dead-reckoning: See under Dead, a.
dead-stroke: Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat. Dead-stroke hammer(Mach.), a power hammer having a spring interposed between thedriving mechanism and the hammer head, or helve, to lessen the recoilof the hammer and reduce the shock upon the mechanism.
deadbeat: Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a singlebeat or excursion; -- said of galvanometers and other instruments inwhich the needle or index moves to the extent of its deflection andstops with little or no further oscillation. Deadbeat escapement. Seeunder Escapement.
deadborn: Stillborn. Pope.
deadener: One who, or that which, deadens or checks.
deadhead: A buoy. See under Dead, a.
deadhouse: A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure ofdead bodies.
deadish: Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.The lips put on a deadish paleness. A. Stafford.
deadlatch: A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that itcan not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outsideby the latch key. Knight.
deadlight: A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water ina storm.
deadlihood: State of the dead. [Obs.]
deadliness: The quality of being deadly.
deadness: The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity,etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness;indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; thedeadness of an eye; deadness of the affections; the deadness of beeror cider; deadness to the world, and the like.
deads: The substances which inclose the ore on every side.
deadwood: A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel togive solidity.
deadworks: The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden.
deaf: To deafen. [Obs.] Dryden.
deaf-mute: A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation ordefect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech,or has lost it. [See Illust. of Dactylology.]Deaf-mutes are still so called, even when, by artificial methods,they have been taught to speak imperfectly.
deaf-mutism: The condition of being a deaf-mute.
deafen: To render impervious to sound, as a partition or floor, byfilling the space within with mortar, by lining with paper, etc.
deafening: The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a flooror wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in thisprocess; pugging.
deafly: Without sense of sounds; obscurely.
deal: The division of a piece of timber made by sawing; a board orplank; particularly, a board or plank of fir or pine above seveninches in width, and exceeding six feet in length. If narrower thanthis, it is called a batten; if shorter, a deal end.
dealbate: To whiten. [Obs.] Cockeram.
dealbation: Act of bleaching; a whitening. [Obs.]
dealfish: A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus).
dealing: The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cardsto the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse;transaction; as, to have dealings with a person. Double dealing,insincere, treacherous dealing; duplicity.-- Plain dealing, fair, sincere, honorable dealing; honest,outspoken expression of opinion.
dealth: Share dealt. [Obs.]
deambulate: To walk abroad. [Obs.] Cockeram.
deambulation: A walking abroad; a promenading. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
deambulatory: Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining toa deambulatory. [Obs.] "Deambulatory actors." Bp. Morton.
deanship: The office of a dean.I dont't value your deanship a straw. Swift.
dear: A dear one; lover; sweetheart.That kiss I carried from thee, dear. Shak.
dear-bought: Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience.
dear-loved: Greatly beloved. Shak.
dearborn: A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.
deare: variant of Dere, v. t. & n. [Obs.]
dearie: Same as Deary. Dickens.
dearling: A darling. [Obs.] Spenser.
dearn: Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful. [Obs.] Shak.-- Dearn"ly, adv. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dearth: Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack offood on account of failure of crops; famine.There came a dearth over all the land of Egypt. Acts vii. 11.He with her press'd, she faint with dearth. Shak.Dearth of plot, and narrowness of imagination. Dryden.
dearticulate: To disjoint.
dearworth: Precious. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
deary: A dear; a darling. [Familiar]
deas: See Dais. [Scot.]
death: Loss of spiritual life.To be death. Rom. viii. 6.
deathbed: The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours oflife of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness.That often-quoted passage from Lord Hervey in which the Queen'sdeathbed is described. Thackeray.
deathbird: Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- socalled from a superstition of the North American Indians that itsnote presages death.
deathblow: A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills ordestroys.The deathblow of my hope. Byron.
deathfulness: Appearance of death. Jer. Taylor.
deathless: Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal;undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame.
deathliness: The quality of being deathly; deadliness. Southey.
deathly: Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive.
deathsman: An executioner; a headsman or hangman. [Obs.] Shak.
deathward: Toward death.
deaurate: Gilded. [Obs.]
deauration: Act of gilding. [Obs.]
deave: To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen. [Scot.]
debacchate: To rave as a bacchanal. [R.] Cockeram.
debacchation: Wild raving or debauchery. [R.] Prynne.
debacle: A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waterswhich breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and dispersesblocks of stone and other débris.
debar: To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; topreclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut outor exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of.Yet not so strictly hath our Lord imposed Labor, as to debar us whenwe need Refreshment. Milton.Their wages were so low as to debar them, not only from the comfortsbut from the common decencies of civilized life. Buckle.
debarb: To deprive of the beard. [Obs.] Bailey.
debark: To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.
debarkation: Disembarkation.The debarkation, therefore, had to take place by small steamers. U.S. Grant.
debarment: Hindrance from approach; exclusion.
debarrass: To disembarrass; to relieve. [R.]
debase: To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth,dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate;to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind byfrivolity; to debase style by vulgar words.The coin which was adulterated and debased. Hale.It is a kind of taking God's name in vain to debase religion withsuch frivolous disputes. Hooker.And to debase the sons, exalts the sires. Pope.
debased: Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted;reversed.
debasement: The act of debasing or the state of being debased. Milton.
debaser: One who, or that which, debases.
debasingly: In a manner to debase.
debatable: Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy orcontention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.The Debatable Land or Ground, a tract of land between the Esk and theSark, claimed by both England and Scotland; the Batable Ground.
debateful: Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome. [Obs.] Spenser.
debatefully: With contention. [Obs.]
debatement: Controversy; deliberation; debate. [R.]A serious question and debatement with myself. Milton.
debater: One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; acontrovertist.Debate where leisure serves with dull debaters. Shak.
debating: The act of discussing or arguing; discussion. Debating societyor club, a society or club for the purpose of debate and improvementin extemporaneous speaking.
debatingly: In the manner of a debate.
debauch: To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in characteror principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, todebauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch anarmy.Learning not debauched by ambition. Burke.A man must have got his conscience thoroughly debauched and hardenedbefore he can arrive to the height of sin. South.Her pride debauched her judgment and her eyes. Cowley.
debauched: Dissolute; dissipated. "A coarse and debauched look." Ld.Lytton.
debauchedly: In a profligate manner.
debauchedness: The state of being debauched; intemperance. Bp. Hall.
debauchee: One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; aman habitually lewd; a libertine.
debaucher: One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer tolewdness.
debauchment: The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty.
debauchness: Debauchedness. [Obs.]
debeige: A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods. [Written also debage.]
debel: To conquer. [Obs.] Milton.
debellate: To subdue; to conquer in war. [Obs.] Speed.
debellation: The act of conquering or subduing. [Obs.]
debenture stock: The debt or series of debts, collectively, represented by aseries of debentures; a debt secured by a trust deed of property forthe benefit of the holders of shares in the debt or of a series ofdebentures. By the terms of much debenture stock the holders are notentitled to demand payment until the winding up of the company ordefault in payment; in the winding up of the company or default inpayment; in the case of railway debentures, they cannot demandpayment of the principal, and the debtor company cannot redeem thestock, except by authority of an act of Parliament. [Eng.]
debentured: Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.
debile: Weak. [Obs.] Shak.
debilitant: Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, adebilitant drug.
debilitate: To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, todebilitate the body by intemperance.Various ails debilitate the mind. Jenyns.The debilitated frame of Mr. Bertram was exhausted by this lasteffort. Sir W. Scott.
debilitation: The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one whois debilitated; weakness.
debility: The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor.The inconveniences of too strong a perspiration, which are debility,faintness, and sometimes sudden death. Arbuthnot.
debit: A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; --mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account.
debitor: A debtor. [Obs.] Shak.
debituminization: The act of depriving of bitumen.
debituminize: To deprive of bitumen.
deblai: The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai),is taken.
debonair: Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; ofgood appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.Was never prince so meek and debonair. Spenser.
debonairity: Debonairness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
debonairly: Courteously; elegantly.
debonairness: The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness;courtesy. Sterne.
debosh: To debauch. [Obs.] "A deboshed lady." Beau. & Fl.
deboshment: Debauchment. [Obs.]
debouch: To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, intoopen ground; to issue.Battalions debouching on the plain. Prescott.
debouche: A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods.The débouchés were ordered widened to afford easy egress. TheCentury.
debouchure: The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait.
debris: Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially,fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.
debruised: Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bendor other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut.The lion of England and the lilies of France without the batonsinister, under which, according to the laws of heraldry, they wheredebruised in token of his illegitimate birth. Macaulay.
debt: An action at law to recover a certain specified sum of moneyalleged to be due. Burrill. Bond debt, Book debt, etc. See underBond, Book, etc.-- Debt of nature, death.
debted: Indebted; obliged to. [R.]I stand debted to this gentleman. Shak.
debtee: One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.Blackstone.
debtless: Free from debt. Chaucer.
debtor: One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative tocreditor.[I 'll] bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully restdebtor for the first. Shak.In Athens an insolvent debtor became slave to his creditor. Mitford.Debtors for our lives to you. Tennyson.
debulliate: To boil over. [Obs.]
debullition: A bubbling or boiling over. [Obs.] Bailey.
deburse: To disburse. [Obs.] Ludlow.
debuscope: A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect imagesso as to form beautiful designs.
debut: A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance beforethe public, as of an actor or public speaker.
deca-: A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (MetricSystem), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten timesthe principal unit.
decacerata: The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids,cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called alsoDecapoda. [Written also Decacera.] See Dibranchiata.
decacuminated: Having the point or top cut off. [Obs.] Bailey.
decad: A decade.Averill was a decad and a half his elder. Tennyson.
decadal: Pertaining to ten; consisting of tens.
decade: A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; adecennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; thesecond decade of Livy. [Written also decad.]During this notable decade of years. Gladstone.
decadent: Decaying; deteriorating.
decadist: A writer of a book divided into decades; as, Livy was adecadist. [R.]
decagon: A plane figure having ten sides and ten angles; any figurehaving ten angles. A regular decagon is one that has all its sidesand angles equal.
decagonal: Pertaining to a decagon; having ten sides.
decagynia: A Linnæan order of plants characterized by having ten styles.
decahedral: Having ten sides.
decahedron: A solid figure or body inclosed by ten plane surfaces. [Writtenalso, less correctly, decaedron.]
decalcification: The removal of calcareous matter.
decalcify: To deprive of calcareous matter; thus, to decalcify bones is toremove the stony part, and leave only the gelatin.
decalog: Decalogue.
decalogist: One who explains the decalogue. J. Gregory.
decalogue: The Ten Commandments or precepts given by God to Moses on MountSinai, and originally written on two tables of stone.
decameron: A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in tendays; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.
decampment: Departure from a camp; a marching off.
decanal: Pertaining to a dean or deanery.His rectorial as well as decanal residence. Churton.Decanal side, the side of the choir on which the dean's tall isplaced.-- Decanal stall, the stall allotted to the dean in the choir, onthe right or south side of the chancel. Shipley.
decandria: A Linnæan class of plants characterized by having ten stamens.
decane: A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, includingseveral isomeric modifications.
decangular: Having ten angles.
decani: Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall isplaced; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, ordecani, side.
decant: To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb thesediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decantwine.
decantate: To decant. [Obs.]
decantation: The act of pouring off a clear liquor gently from its lees orsediment, or from one vessel into another.
decaphyllous: Having ten leaves.
decapitation: The act of beheading; beheading.
decapod: A crustacean with ten feet or legs, as a crab; one of theDecapoda. Also used adjectively.
decapoda: The order of Crustacea which includes the shrimps, lobsters,crabs, etc.
decarbonate: To deprive of carbonic acid.
decarbonization: The action or process of depriving a substance of carbon.
decarbonize: To deprive of carbon; as, to decarbonize steel; to decarbonizethe blood. Decarbonized iron. See Malleable iron.-- Decarbonized steel, homogenous wrought iron made by a steelprocess, as that of Bessemer; ingot iron.
decarbonizer: He who, or that which, decarbonizes a substance.
decarburization: The act, process, or result of decarburizing.
decarburize: To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from.
decard: To discard. [Obs.]You have cast those by, decarded them. J. Fletcher.
decardinalize: To depose from the rank of cardinal.
decastere: A measure of capacity, equal to ten steres, or ten cubicmeters.
decastich: A poem consisting of ten lines.
decastyle: Having ten columns in front; -- said of a portico, temple, etc.-- n.
decasyllabic: Having, or consisting of, ten syllables.
decathlon: In the modern Olympic Games, a composite contest consisting ofa 100-meter run, a broad jump, putting the shot, a running high-jump,a 400-meter run, throwing the discus, a 100-meter hurdle race, polevaulting, throwing the javelin, and a 1500-meter run.
decatoic: Pertaining to, or derived from, decane.
decay: To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state,to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; todecline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot;to perish; as, a tree decays; fortunes decay; hopes decay.Ill fares the land, to hastening ills a prey, Where wealthaccumulates and men decay. Goldsmith.
decayed: Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected withdecay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayedfortune or gentleman.-- De*cay"ed*ness, n.
decayer: A causer of decay. [R.]
decease: Departure, especially departure from this life; death.His decease, which he should accomplish at Jerusalem. Luke ix. 31.And I, the whilst you mourn for his decease, Will with my mourningplaints your plaint increase. Spenser.
deceased: Passed away; dead; gone. The deceased, the dead person.
decede: To withdraw. [Obs.] Fuller.
decedent: Removing; departing. Ash.
deceit: Any trick, collusion, contrivance, false representation, orunderhand practice, used to defraud another. When injury is therebyeffected, an action of deceit, as it called, lies for compensation.
deceitful: Full of, or characterized by, deceit; serving to mislead orinsnare; trickish; fraudulent; cheating; insincere.Harboring foul deceitful thoughts. Shak.
deceitfully: With intent to deceive.
deceitless: Free from deceit. Bp. Hall.
deceivably: In a deceivable manner.
deceiver: One who deceives; one who leads into error; a cheat; animpostor.The deceived and the deceiver are his. Job xii. 16.
decembrist: One of those who conspired for constitutional governmentagainst the Emperor Nicholas on his accession to the throne at thedeath of Alexander I., in December, 1825; -- called also Dekabrist.
decemdentate: Having ten points or teeth.
decemfid: Cleft into ten parts.
decemlocular: Having ten cells for seeds.
decempedal: Having ten feet; decapodal. [R.] Bailey.
decemviral: Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome.
decemvirship: The office of a decemvir. Holland.
decence: Decency. [Obs.] Dryden.
decene: One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series.
decennary: A tithing consisting of ten neighboring families. Burrill.
decennial: Consisting of ten years; happening every ten years; as, adecennial period; decennial games. Hallam.
decennium: A period of ten years. "The present decennium." Hallam. "Thelast decennium of Chaucer's life." A. W. Ward.
decentralization: The action of decentralizing, or the state of beingdecentralized. "The decentralization of France." J. P. Peters.
decentralize: To prevent from centralizing; to cause to withdraw from thecenter or place of concentration; to divide and distribute (what hasbeen united or concentrated); -- esp. said of authority, or theadministration of public affairs.
deceptible: Capable of being deceived; deceivable. Sir T. Browne.-- De*cep`ti*bil"i*ty (, n.
deceptious: Tending deceive; delusive. [R.]As if those organs had deceptious functions. Shak.
deceptive: Tending to deceive; having power to mislead, or impress withfalse opinions; as, a deceptive countenance or appearance.Language altogether deceptive, and hiding the deeper reality from oureyes. Trench.Deceptive cadence (Mus.), a cadence on the subdominant, or in someforeign key, postponing the final close.
deceptively: In a manner to deceive.
deceptiveness: The power or habit of deceiving; tendency or aptness todeceive.
deceptivity: Deceptiveness; a deception; a sham. [R.] Carlyle.
deceptory: Deceptive. [R.]
decern: To decree; to adjudge.
decerniture: A decree or sentence of a court. Stormonth.
decerp: To pluck off; to crop; to gather. [Obs.]
decerpt: Plucked off or away. [Obs.]
decerptible: That may be plucked off, cropped, or torn away. [Obs.] Bailey.
decertation: Contest for mastery; contention; strife. [R.] Arnway.
decession: Departure; decrease; -- opposed to accesion. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
decharm: To free from a charm; to disenchant.
dechristianize: To turn from, or divest of, Christianity.
deciare: A measure of area, the tenth part of an are; ten square meters.
decidable: Capable of being decided; determinable.
decide: To determine; to form a definite opinion; to come to aconclusion; to give decision; as, the court decided in favor of thedefendant.Who shall decide, when doctors disagree Pope.
decidedly: In a decided manner; indisputably; clearly; thoroughly.
decidement: Means of forming a decision. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
decidence: A falling off. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
decider: One who decides.
decidua: The inner layer of the wall of the uterus, which envelops theembryo, forms a part of the placenta, and is discharged with it.
deciduata: A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, orafter, the fetus, as in the human species.
deciduate: Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua.
deciduity: Deciduousness. [R.]
deciduous: Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certainseason, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (exceptof evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair,teeth, antlers, etc.; also, shedding leaves or parts at certainseasons, stages, or intervals; as, deciduous trees; the deciduousmembrane.
deciduousness: The quality or state of being deciduous.
decillion: According to the English notation, a million involved to thetenth power, or a unit with sixty ciphers annexed; according to theFrench and American notation, a thousand involved to the eleventhpower, or a unit with thirty-three ciphers annexed. [See the Noteunder Numeration.]
decillionth: Pertaining to a decillion, or to the quotient of unity dividedby a decillion.
decimal: Of or pertaining to decimals; numbered or proceeding by tens;having a tenfold increase or decrease, each unit being ten times theunit next smaller; as, decimal notation; a decimal coinage. Decimalarithmetic, the common arithmetic, in which numeration proceeds bytens.-- Decimal fraction, a fraction in which the denominator is somepower of 10, as -- Decimal point, a dot or full stop at the left of adecimal fraction. The figures at the left of the point representunits or whole numbers, as 1.05.
decimalism: The system of a decimal currency, decimal weights, measures,etc.
decimalize: To reduce to a decimal system; as, to decimalize the currency.-- Dec`i*mal*i*za"tion, n.
decimally: By tens; by means of decimals.
decimator: One who decimates. South.
decime: A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about twocents.
decimosexto: A book consisting of sheets, each of which is folded intosixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size ofbook; -- usually written 16mo or 16º.
decine: One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetyleneseries; -- called also decenylene.
decipherable: Capable of being deciphered; as, old writings not decipherable.
decipherer: One who deciphers.
decipheress: A woman who deciphers.
decipherment: The act of deciphering.
decipiency: State of being deceived; hallucination. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
decipium: A supposed rare element, said to be associated with cerium,yttrium, etc., in the mineral samarskite, and more recently calledsamarium. Symbol Dp. See Samarium.
decisory: Able to decide or determine; having a tendency to decide. [R.]
decistere: The tenth part of the stere or cubic meter, equal to 3.531cubic feet. See Stere.
decitizenize: To deprive of the rights of citizenship. [R.]We have no law -- as the French have -- to decitizenize a citizen.Edw. Bates.
decivilize: To reduce from civilization to a savage state. [R.] Blackwood'sMag.
deck: The upper part or top of a mansard roof or curb roof when madenearly flat.
deckel: Same as Deckle.
deckle: A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a handmold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, andforms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines thewidth of the paper. [Spelt also deckel, and deckle.]
deckle edge: The rough, untrimmed edge of paper left by the deckle; also, arough edge in imitation of this.
deckle-edged: Having a deckle edge; as, deckle-edged paper; a deckle-edgedbook.
declaimant: A declaimer. [R.]
declaimer: One who declaims; an haranguer.
declamator: A declaimer. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
declarable: Capable of being declared. Sir T. Browne.
declarant: One who declares. Abbott.
declaration: That part of the process in which the plaintiff sets forth inorder and at large his cause of complaint; the narration of theplaintiff's case containing the count, or counts. See Count, n., 3.Declaration of Independence. (Amer. Hist.) See under Independence.-- Declaration of rights. (Eng. Hist) See Bill of rights, underBill.-- Declaration of trust (Law), a paper subscribed by a grantee ofproperty, acknowledging that he holds it in trust for the purposesand upon the terms set forth. Abbott.
declarative: Making declaration, proclamation, or publication; explanatory;assertive; declaratory. "Declarative laws." Baker.The "vox populi," so declarative on the same side. Swift.
declaratively: By distinct assertion; not impliedly; in the form of adeclaration.The priest shall expiate it, that is, declaratively. Bates.
declarator: A form of action by which some right or interest is sought tobe judicially declared.
declaratorily: In a declaratory manner.
declaratory: Making declaration, explanation, or exhibition; making clear ormanifest; affirmative; expressive; as, a clause declaratory of thewill of the legislature. Declaratory act (Law), an act or statutewhich sets forth more clearly, and declares what is, the existinglaw.
declare: To make full statement of, as goods, etc., for the purpose ofpaying taxes, duties, etc. To declare off, to recede from anagreement, undertaking, contract, etc.; to renounce.-- To declare one's self, to avow one's opinion; to show openly whatone thinks, or which side he espouses.
declaredly: Avowedly; explicitly.
declaredness: The state of being declared.
declarement: Declaration. [Obs.]
declarer: One who makes known or proclaims; that which exhibits. Udall.
declass: To remove from a class; to separate or degrade from one'sclass.  North Am. Rev.
declensional: Belonging to declension.Declensional and syntactical forms. M. Arnold.
declinable: Capable of being declined; admitting of declension orinflection; as, declinable parts of speech.
declinal: Declining; sloping.
declinate: Bent downward or aside; (Bot.) bending downward in a curve;declined.
declination: The angular distance of any object from the celestial equator,either northward or southward.
declinatory: Containing or involving a declination or refusal, as ofsubmission to a charge or sentence. Blackstone. Declinatory plea (O.Eng. Law), the plea of sanctuary or of benefit of clergy, beforetrial or conviction; -- now abolished.
declinature: The act of declining or refusing; as, the declinature of anoffice.
decline: To inflect, or rehearse in order the changes of grammaticalform of; as, to decline a noun or an adjective.
declined: Declinate.
decliner: He who declines or rejects.A studious decliner of honors. Evelyn.
declinometer: An instrument for measuring the declination of the magneticneedle.
declinous: Declinate.
decoctible: Capable of being boiled or digested.
decocture: A decoction. [R.]
decoherer: A device for restoring a coherer to its normal condition afterit has been affected by an electric wave, a process usuallyaccomplished by some method of tapping or shaking, or by rotation ofthe coherer.
decollate: To sever from the neck; to behead; to decapitate.The decollated head of St. John the Baptist. Burke.
decollated: Decapitated; worn or cast off in the process of growth, as theapex of certain univalve shells.
decolletage: The upper border or part of a décolleté corsage.
decollete: Leaving the neck and shoulders uncovered; cut low in the neck,or low-necked, as a dress.
decolling: Beheading. [R.]By a speedy dethroning and decolling of the king. ParliamentaryHistory (1648).
decolor: To deprive of color; to bleach.
decolorant: A substance which removes color, or bleaches.
decolorate: Deprived of color.
decoloration: The removal or absence of color. Ferrand.
decolorize: To deprive of color; to whiten. Turner.-- De*col`or*i*za"tion, n.
decomplex: Repeatedly compound; made up of complex constituents.
decomposable: Capable of being resolved into constituent elements.
decompose: To separate the constituent parts of; to resolve into originalelements; to set free from previously existing forms of chemicalcombination; to bring to dissolution; to rot or decay.
decomposed: Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when thefeathers are divergent.
decomposite: See Decompound, a., 2.
decompound: Several times compounded or divided, as a leaf or stem;decomposite.
decompoundable: Capable of being decompounded.
deconcentrate: To withdraw from concentration; to decentralize. [R.]
deconcentration: Act of deconcentrating. [R.]
deconcoct: To decompose. [R.] Fuller.
deconsecrate: To deprive of sacredness; to secularize.-- De*con`se*cra"tion, n.
decorament: Ornament. [Obs.] Bailey.
decorate: To deck with that which is becoming, ornamental, or honorary;to adorn; to beautify; to embellish; as, to decorate the person; todecorate an edifice; to decorate a lawn with flowers; to decorate themind with moral beauties; to decorate a hero with honors.Her fat neck was ornamented with jewels, rich bracelets decorated herarms. Thackeray.
decoration day: = Memorial Day. [U. S.]
decorative: Suited to decorate or embellish; adorning.-- Dec"o*ra*tive*ness, n. Decorative art, fine art which has for itsend ornamentation, rather than the representation of objects orevents.
decorator: One who decorates, adorns, or embellishes; specifically, anartisan whose business is the decoration of houses, esp. theirinterior decoration.
decore: To decorate; to beautify. [Obs.]To decore and beautify the house of God. E. Hall.
decorement: Ornament. [Obs.]
decorous: Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion;marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting; as, adecorous speech; decorous behavior; a decorous dress for a judge.A decorous pretext the war. Motley.-- De*co"rous*ly, adv.-- De*co"rous*ness, n.
decorticate: To divest of the bark, husk, or exterior coating; to husk; topeel; to hull. "Great barley dried and decorticated." Arbuthnot.
decortication: The act of stripping off the bark, rind, hull, or outer coat.
decorticator: A machine for decorticating wood, hulling grain, etc.; also, aninstrument for removing surplus bark or moss from fruit trees.
decorum: Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitablenessof speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place andoccasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly orsuitable.Negligent of the duties and decorums of his station. Hallam.If your master Would have a queen his beggar, you must tell him, Thatmajesty, to keep decorum, must No less beg than a kingdom. Shak.
decoy: To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare;to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops intoan ambush; to decoy ducks into a net.Did to a lonely cot his steps decoy. Thomson.E'en while fashion's brightest arts decoy, The heart, distrusting,asks if this be joy. Goldsmith.
decoy-duck: A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a personemployed to lure others into danger. Beau. & Fl.
decoy-man: A man employed in decoying wild fowl.
decoyer: One who decoys another.
decrease: To grow less, -- opposed to increase; to be diminishedgradually, in size, degree, number, duration, etc., or in strength,quality, or excellence; as, they days decrease in length from June toDecember.He must increase, but I must decrease. John iii. 30.
decreaseless: Suffering no decrease. [R.]It [the river] flows and flows, and yet will flow, Volumedecreaseless to the final hour. A. Seward.
decreasing: Becoming less and less; diminishing.-- De*creas"ing*ly, adv. Decreasing series (Math.), a series inwhich each term is numerically smaller than the preceding term.
decreation: Destruction; -- opposed to creation. [R.] Cudworth.
decree: An edict or law made by a council for regulating any businesswithin their jurisdiction; as, the decrees of ecclesiasticalcouncils.
decreeable: Capable of being decreed.
decreer: One who decrees. J. Goodwin.
decreet: The final judgment of the Court of Session, or of an inferiorcourt, by which the question at issue is decided.
decrement: A name given by Haüy to the successive diminution of the layersof molecules, applied to the faces of the primitive form, by which hesupposed the secondary forms to be produced.
decrepit: Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmitiesof old age; feeble; worn out. "Beggary or decrepit age." Milton.Already decrepit with premature old age. Motley.
decrepitate: To roast or calcine so as to cause a crackling noise; as, todecrepitate salt.
decrepitation: The act of decrepitating; a crackling noise, such as salt makeswhen roasting.
decrepitness: Decrepitude. [R.] Barrow.
decrepitude: The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age;infirm old age.
decrescendo: With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers,either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), orindicated by the sign.
decrescent: Becoming less by gradual diminution; decreasing; as, adecrescent moon.
decretal: Appertaining to a decree; containing a decree; as, a decretalepistle. Ayliffe.
decrete: A decree. [Obs.] Chaucer.
decretion: A decrease. [Obs.] Pearson.
decretist: One who studies, or professes the knowledge of, the decretals.
decretive: Having the force of a decree; determining.The will of God is either decretive or perceptive. Bates.
decretorial: Decretory; authoritative. Sir T. Browne.
decretorily: In a decretory or definitive manner; by decree.
decrew: To decrease. [Obs.] Spenser.
decrial: A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure.
decrier: One who decries.
decrown: To deprive of a crown; to discrown. [R.] Hakewill.
decrustation: The removal of a crust.
decry: To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; toclamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage.For small errors they whole plays decry. Dryden.Measures which are extolled by one half of the kingdom are naturallydecried by the other. Addison.
decubation: Act of lying down; decumbence. [Obs.] Evelyn.
decubitus: An attitude assumed in lying down; as, the dorsal decubitus.
decuman: Large; chief; -- applied to an extraordinary billow, supposedby some to be every tenth in order. [R.] Also used substantively."Such decuman billows." Gauden. "The baffled decuman." Lowell.
decumbent: Reclining on the ground, as if too weak to stand, and tendingto rise at the summit or apex; as, a decumbent stem. Gray.
decumbently: In a decumbent posture.
decumbiture: Aspect of the heavens at the time of taking to one's sick bed,by which the prognostics of recovery or death were made.
decuple: Tenfold. [R.]
decurion: A head or chief over ten; especially, an officer who commandeda division of ten soldiers.
decurionate: The office of a decurion.
decurrence: The act of running down; a lapse. [R.] Gauden.
decurrent: Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extendsdownward and forms a wing along the stem.-- De*cur"rent*ly, adv.
decursion: A flowing; also, a hostile incursion. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
decursive: Running down; decurrent.
decursively: In a decursive manner. Decursively pinnate (Bot.), having theleaflets decurrent, or running along the petiole; -- said of a leaf.
decurt: To cut short; to curtail. [Obs.] Bale.
decurtation: Act of cutting short. [Obs.]
decury: A set or squad of ten men under a decurion. Sir W. Raleigh.
decussate: To cross at an acute angle; to cut or divide in the form of X;to intersect; -- said of lines in geometrical figures, rays of light,nerves, etc.
decussately: In a decussate manner.
decussation: Act of crossing at an acute angle, or state of being thuscrossed; an intersection in the form of an X; as, the decussation oflines, nerves, etc.
decussative: Intersecting at acute angles. Sir T. Browne.
decussatively: Crosswise; in the form of an X. "Anointed decussatively." SirT. Browne.
decyl: A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, butregarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compoundsof the paraffin series.
decylic: Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl.
dedalian: See Dædalian.
dedalous: See Dædalous.
dedans: A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators.
dede: Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dedecorate: To bring to shame; to disgrace. [Obs.] Bailey.
dedecoration: Disgrace; dishonor. [Obs.] Bailey.
dedecorous: Disgraceful; unbecoming. [R.] Bailey.
dedentition: The shedding of teeth. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
dedicate: Dedicated; set apart; devoted; consecrated. "Dedicate tonothing temporal." Shak.
dedicatee: One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator.
dedicator: One who dedicates; more especially, one who inscribes a book tothe favor of a patron, or to one whom he desires to compliment.
dedicatorial: Dedicatory.
dedicatory: Constituting or serving as a dedication; complimental. "Anepistle dedicatory." Dryden.
dedimus: A writ to commission private persons to do some act in place ofa judge, as to examine a witness, etc. Bouvier.
dedition: The act of yielding; surrender. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
dedolent: Feeling no compunction; apathetic. [R.] Hallywell.
deducement: Inference; deduction; thing deduced. [R.] Dryden.
deducibility: Deducibleness.
deducibleness: The quality of being deducible; deducibility.
deducibly: By deduction.
deducive: That deduces; inferential.
deductive: Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced frompremises; deducible.All knowledge of causes is deductive. Glanvill.Notions and ideas . . . used in a deductive process. Whewell.
deductively: By deduction; by way of inference; by consequence. Sir T.Browne.
deductor: The pilot whale or blackfish.
deduit: Delight; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
deduplication: The division of that which is morphologically one organ intotwo or more, as the division of an organ of a plant into a pair orcluster.
deed: Dead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
deed poll: A deed of one part, or executed by only one party, anddistinguished from an indenture by having the edge of the parchmentor paper cut even, or polled as it was anciently termed, instead ofbeing indented. Burrill.
deedful: Full of deeds or exploits; active; stirring. [R.] "A deedfullife." Tennyson.
deedless: Not performing, or not having performed, deeds or exploits;inactive.Deedless in his tongue. Shak.
deedy: Industrious; active. [R.] Cowper.
deem: Opinion; judgment. [Obs.] Shak.
deemster: A judge in the Isle of Man who decides controversies withoutprocess. Cowell.
deep: To a great depth; with depth; far down; profoundly; deeply.Deep-versed in books, and shallow in himself. Milton.Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring. Pope.
deep-fet: Deeply fetched or drawn. [Obs.] "Deep-fet groans." Shak.
deep-laid: Laid deeply; formed with cunning and sagacity; as, deep-laidplans.
deep-mouthed: Having a loud and sonorous voice. "Deep-mouthed dogs." Dryden.
deep-read: Profoundly book-learned. "Great writers and deep-read men."L'Estrange.
deep-sea: Of or pertaining to the deeper parts of the sea; as, a deep-sealine (i. e., a line to take soundings at a great depth); deep-sealead; deep-sea soundings, explorations, etc.
deep-waisted: Having a deep waist, as when, in a ship, the poop andforecastle are much elevated above the deck.
deepen: To become deeper; as, the water deepens at every cast of thelead; the plot deepens.His blood-red tresses deepening in the sun. Byron.
deer: A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of relatedgenera of the family Cervidæ. The males, and in some species thefemales, have solid antlers, often much branched, which are shedannually. Their flesh, for which they are hunted, is called venison.
deer-neck: A deerlike, or thin, ill-formed neck, as of a horse.
deerberry: A shrub of the blueberry group (Vaccinium stamineum); also, itsbitter, greenish white berry; -- called also squaw huckleberry.
deergrass: An American genus (Rhexia) of perennial herbs, with oppositeleaves, and showy flowers (usually bright purple), with four petalsand eight stamens, -- the only genus of the order Melastomaceæinhabiting a temperate clime.
deerhound: One of a large and fleet breed of hounds used in hunting deer;a staghound.
deerlet: A chevrotain. See Kanchil, and Napu.
deerskin: The skin of a deer, or the leather which is made from it.Hakluyt. Longfellow.
deerstalker: One who practices deerstalking.
deerstalking: The hunting of deer on foot, by stealing upon them unawares.
dees: Dice. [Obs.] Chaucer.
deesis: An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being.
deess: A goddess. [Obs.] Croft.
deev: See Dev.
deface: To destroy; to make null. [Obs.][Profane scoffing] doth . . . deface the reverence of religion.Bacon.For all his power was utterly defaste [defaced]. Spenser.
defacer: One who, or that which, defaces or disfigures.
defail: To cause fail. [Obs.]
defailance: Failure; miscarriage. [Obs.]Possibility of defailance in degree or continuance. Comber.
defailure: Failure. [Obs.] Barrow.
defalcate: To cut off; to take away or deduct a part of; -- used chieflyof money, accounts, rents, income, etc.To show what may be practicably and safely defalcated from the [theestimates]. Burke.
defalcator: A defaulter or embezzler. [Modern]
defalk: To lop off; to bate. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
defamation: Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderouscommunication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring thegood name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.
defamatory: Containing defamation; injurious to reputation; calumnious;slanderous; as, defamatory words; defamatory writings.
defame: Dishonor. [Obs.] Chaucer.
defamer: One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator.
defamingly: In a defamatory manner.
defamous: Defamatory. [Obs.]
defatigable: Capable of being wearied or tired out. [R.] Glanvill.
defatigate: To weary or tire out; to fatigue. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.
defatigation: Weariness; fatigue. [R.] Bacon.
default: A neglect of, or failure to take, some step necessary to securethe benefit of law, as a failure to appear in court at a dayassigned, especially of the defendant in a suit when called to makeanswer; also of jurors, witnesses, etc. In default of, in case offailure or lack of.Cooks could make artificial birds and fishes in default of the realones. Arbuthnot.-- To suffer a default (Law), to permit an action to be calledwithout appearing to answer.
defeasance: A condition, relating to a deed, which being performed, thedeed is defeated or rendered void; or a collateral deed, made at thesame time with a feoffment, or other conveyance, containingconditions, on the performance of which the estate then created maybe defeated.
defeasanced: Liable to defeasance; capable of being made void or forfeited.
defeasible: Capable of being annulled or made void; as, a defeasible title.-- De*fea"si*ble*ness, n.
defeatured: Changed in features; deformed. [R.]Features when defeatured in the . . . way I have described. DeQuincey.
defecate: Freed from anything that can pollute, as dregs, lees, etc.;refined; purified.Till the soul be defecate from the dregs of sense. Bates.
defecation: The act or process of voiding excrement.
defecator: That which cleanses or purifies; esp., an apparatus forremoving the feculencies of juices and sirups. Knight.
defect: To fail; to become deficient. [Obs.] "Defected honor." Warner.
defectibility: Deficiency; imperfection. [R.] Ld. Digby. Jer. Taylor.
defectible: Liable to defect; imperfect. [R.] "A defectible understanding."Jer. Taylor.
defection: Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound byallegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion;failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding. "Defectionand falling away from God." Sir W. Raleigh.The general defection of the whole realm. Sir J. Davies.
defectionist: One who advocates or encourages defection.
defectious: Having defects; imperfect. [Obs.] "Some one defectious piece."Sir P. Sidney.
defective: Lacking some of the usual forms of declension or conjugation;as, a defective noun or verb.-- De*fect"ive*ly, adv.-- De*fect"ive*ness, n.
defectuosity: Great imperfection. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
defectuous: Full of defects; imperfect. [Obs.] Barrow.
defedation: The act of making foul; pollution. [Obs.]
defence: See Defense.
defend: To deny the right of the plaintiff in regard to (the suit, orthe wrong charged); to oppose or resist, as a claim at law; tocontest, as a suit. Burrill.
defendable: Capable of being defended; defensible. [R.]
defendant: A person required to make answer in an action or suit; --opposed to plaintiff. Abbott.
defendee: One who is defended. [R. & Ludicrous]
defender: One who defends; one who maintains, supports, protects, orvindicates; a champion; an advocate; a vindicator.Provinces . . . left without their ancient and puissant defenders.Motley.
defendress: A female defender. [R.]Defendress of the faith. Stow.
defensative: That which serves to protect or defend.
defense: To furnish with defenses; to fortify. [Obs.] [Written alsodefence.]Better manned and more strongly defensed. Hales.
defenseless: Destitute of defense; unprepared to resist attack; unable tooppose; unprotected.-- De*fense"less*ly, adv.-- De*fense"less*ness, n.
defenser: Defender. [Obs.] Foxe.
defensibility: Capability of being defended.
defensibleness: Capability of being defended; defensibility. Priestley.
defensive: That which defends; a safeguard.Wars preventive, upon just fears, are true defensive. Bacon.To be on the defensive, To stand on the defensive, to be or stand ina state or posture of defense or resistance, in opposition toaggression or attack.
defensively: On the defensive.
defensor: A defender or an advocate in court; a guardian or protector.
defensory: Tending to defend; defensive; as, defensory preparations.
defer: To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay theexecution of; to delay; to withhold.Defer the spoil of the city until night. Shak.God . . . will not long defer To vindicate the glory of his name.Milton.
deference: A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishesor opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect;complaisance.Deference to the authority of thoughtful and sagacious men. Whewell.Deference is the most complicate, the most indirect, and the mostelegant of all compliments. Shenstone.
deferent: Serving to carry; bearing. [R.] "Bodies deferent." Bacon.
deferential: Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.
deferentially: With deference.
deferment: The act of delaying; postponement. [R.]My grief, joined with the instant business, Begs a deferment.Suckling.
deferrer: One who defers or puts off.
defeudalize: To deprive of the feudal character or form.
defiant: Full of defiance; bold; insolent; as, a defiant spirit or act.In attitude stern and defiant. Longfellow.-- De*fi"ant*ly, adv.-- De*fi"ant*ness, n.
defiatory: Bidding or manifesting defiance. [Obs.] Shelford.
defibrinate: To deprive of fibrin, as fresh blood or lymph by stirring withtwigs.
defibrination: The act or process of depriving of fibrin.
defibrinize: To defibrinate.
deficience: Same as Deficiency.Thou in thyself art perfect, and in thee Is no deficience found.Milton.
deficiency: The state of being deficient; inadequacy; want; failure;imperfection; shortcoming; defect. "A deficiencyof blood." Arbuthnot.[Marlborough] was so miserably ignorant, that his deficiencies madehim the ridicule of his contemporaries. Buckle.Deficiency of a curve (Geom.), the amount by which the number ofdouble points on a curve is short of the maximum for curves of thesame degree.
deficient: Wanting, to make up completeness; wanting, as regards arequirement; not sufficient; inadequate; defective; imperfect;incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient estate; deficientstrength; deficient in judgment.The style was indeed deficient in ease and variety. Macaulay.Deficient number. (Arith.) See under Abundant.-- De*fi"cient-ly, adv.
deficit: Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, adeficit in taxes, revenue, etc. Addison.
defier: One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of thelaws.
defiguration: Disfiguration; mutilation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
defigure: To delineate. [Obs.]These two stones as they are here defigured. Weever.
defilade: To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior workscommanded from some higher point.
defilading: The art or act of determining the directions and heights of thelines of rampart with reference to the protection of the interiorfrom exposure to an enemy's fire from any point within range, or fromany works which may be erected. Farrow.
defile: To march off in a line, file by file; to file off.
defilement: The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from anenfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on theexposed side.
defiler: One who defiles; one who corrupts or violates; that whichpollutes.
defiliation: Abstraction of a child from its parents. Lamb.
definable: Capable of being defined, limited, or explained; determinable;describable by definition; ascertainable; as, definable limits;definable distinctions or regulations; definable words.-- De*fin"a*bly, adv.
define: To determine; to decide. [Obs.]
definement: The act of defining; definition; description. [Obs.] Shak.
definer: One who defines or explains.
definite: A thing defined or determined. [Obs.]
definitely: In a definite manner; with precision; precisely; determinately.
definiteness: The state of being definite; determinateness; precision;certainty.
definition: An exact enunciation of the constituents which make up thelogical essence.
definitional: Relating to definition; of the nature of a definition; employedin defining.
definitive: A word used to define or limit the extent of the significationof a common noun, such as the definite article, and some pronouns.
definitively: In a definitive manner.
definitiveness: The quality of being definitive.
definitude: Definiteness. [R.]Definitude . . . is a knowledge of minute differences. Sir W.Hamilton.
defix: To fix; to fasten; to establish. [Obs.] "To defix theirprincely seat . . . in that extreme province." Hakluyt.
deflagrability: The state or quality of being deflagrable.The ready deflagrability . . . of saltpeter. Boyle.
deflagrable: Burning with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter;hence, slightly explosive; liable to snap and crackle when heated, assalt.
deflagrate: To burn with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; also,to snap and crackle with slight explosions when heated, as salt.
deflagration: The act or process of deflagrating.
deflagrator: A form of the voltaic battery having large plates, used forproducing rapid and powerful combustion.
deflate: To reduce from an inflated condition.
deflect: To cause to turn aside; to bend; as, rays of light are oftendeflected.Sitting with their knees deflected under them. Lord (1630).
deflectable: Capable of being deflected.
deflection: The deviation of a shot or ball from its true course.
deflectionization: The act of freeing from inflections. Earle.
deflectionize: To free from inflections.Deflectionized languages are said to be analytic. Earle.
deflective: Causing deflection. Deflective forces, forces that cause a bodyto deviate from its course.
deflector: That which deflects, as a diaphragm in a furnace, or a come ina lamp (to deflect and mingle air and gases and help combustion).
deflexed: Bent abruptly downward.
deflexion: See Deflection.
deflexure: A bending or turning aside; deflection. Bailey.
deflorate: Past the flowering state; having shed its pollen. Gray.
deflourer: One who deflours; a ravisher.
deflow: To flow down. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
deflower: Same as Deflour.An earthquake . . . deflowering the gardens. W. Montagu.If a man had deflowered a virgin. Milton.
deflowerer: See Deflourer. Milton.
defluous: Flowing down; falling off. [Obs.] Bailey.
deflux: Downward flow. [Obs.] Bacon.
defluxion: A discharge or flowing of humors or fluid matter, as from thenose in catarrh; -- sometimes used synonymously with inflammation.Dunglison.
defly: Deftly. [Obs.] Spenser.
defoedation: Defedation. [Obs.]
defoliation: The separation of ripened leaves from a branch or stem; thefalling or shedding of the leaves.
deforceor: Same as Deforciant. [Obs.]
deforciation: Same as Deforcement, n.
deforest: To clear of forests; to dis U. S. Agric. Reports.
deform: Deformed; misshapen; shapeless; horrid. [Obs.]Sight so deform what heart of rock could long Dry-eyed behold Milton.
deformed: Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen;disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head.-- De*form"ed*ly, adv.-- De*form"ed*ness, n.
deformer: One who deforms.
deforser: A deforciant. [Obs.] Blount.
defraud: To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitfuldevice; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; tocheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or thestate; -- with of before the thing taken or withheld.We have defrauded no man. 2 Cor. vii. 2.Churches seem injured and defrauded of their rights. Hooker.
defraudation: The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
defrauder: One who defrauds; a cheat; an embezzler; a peculator.
defraudment: Privation by fraud; defrauding. [Obs.] Milton.
defrayal: The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessarycosts.
defrayer: One who pays off expenses.
defrayment: Payment of charges.
deft: Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat. [Archaic orPoetic] "The deftest way." Shak. "Deftest feats." Gay.The limping god, do deft at his new ministry. Dryden.Let me be deft and debonair. Byron.
deftly: Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly. "Deftly dancing." Drayton.Thyself and office deftly show. Shak.
deftness: The quality of being deft. Drayton.
defunct: Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased. "Defunctorgans." Shak.The boar, defunct, lay tripped up, near. Byron.
defunction: Death. [Obs.]After defunction of King Pharamond. Shak.
defunctive: Funereal. [Obs.] "Defunctive music." Shak.
defuse: To disorder; to make shapeless. [Obs.] Shak.
defy: A challenge. [Obs.] Dryden.
degage: Unconstrained; easy; free. Vanbrugh.
degarnishment: The act of depriving, as of furniture, apparatus, or agarrison. [R.]
degenerate: Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state;having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated;degraded; unworthy; base; low.Faint-hearted and degenerate king. Shak.A degenerate and degraded state. Milton.Degenerate from their ancient blood. Swift.These degenerate days. Pope.I had planted thee a noble vine . . .
degenerately: In a degenerate manner; unworthily.
degenerateness: Degeneracy.
degeneration: That condition of a tissue or an organ in which its vitalityhas become either diminished or perverted; a substitution of a lowerfor a higher form of structure; as, fatty degeneration of the liver.
degenerationist: A believer in the theory of degeneration, or hereditarydegradation of type; as, the degenerationists hold that savagery isthe result of degeneration from a superior state.
degenerative: Undergoing or producing degeneration; tending to degenerate.
degenerous: Degenerate; base. [Obs.] "Degenerous passions." Dryden."Degenerous practices." South.
degenerously: Basely. [Obs.]
degerm: To extract the germs from, as from wheat grains.
degerminator: A machine for breaking open the kernels of wheat or other grainand removing the germs.
deglaze: To remove the glaze from, as pottery or porcelain, so as togive a dull finish.
deglazing: The process of giving a dull or ground surface to glass by acidor by mechanical means. Knight.
degloried: Deprived of glory; dishonored. [Obs.] "With thorns degloried."G. Fletcher.
deglutinate: To loosen or separate by dissolving the glue which unties; tounglue.
deglutination: The act of ungluing.
deglutition: The act or process of swallowing food; the power of swallowing.The muscles employed in the act of deglutition. Paley.
deglutitious: Pertaining to deglutition. [R.]
deglutitory: Serving for, or aiding in, deglutition.
degradation: A gradual wearing down or wasting, as of rocks and banks, bythe action of water, fro
degrade: To reduce in altitude or magnitude, as hills and mountains; towear down.
degraded: Having the typical characters or organs in a partiallydeveloped condition, or lacking certain parts.Some families of plants are degraded dicotyledons. Dana.
degradement: Deprivation of rank or office; degradation. [R.] Milton.
degradingly: In a degrading manner.
degravation: The act of making heavy. [Obs.] Bailey.
degrease: To remove grease or fatty matter from, as wool or silk.
degree: A certain distance or remove in the line of descent,determining the proximity of blood; one remove in the chain ofrelationship; as, a relation in the third or fourth degree.In the 11th century an opinion began to gain ground in Italy, thatthird cousins might marry, being in the seventh degree according tothe civil law. Hallam.
degu: A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the familyOctodontidæ.
degum: To deprive of, or free from, gum; as, to degum ramie.
degust: To taste. [Obs.] Cockeram.
degustation: Tasting; the appreciation of sapid qualities by the tasteorgans. Bp. Hall.
dehisce: To gape; to open by dehiscence.
dehiscence: A gaping or bursting open along a definite line of attachmentor suture, without tearing, as in the opening of pods, or thebursting of capsules at maturity so as to emit seeds, etc.; also, thebursting open of follicles, as in the ovaries of animals, for theexpulsion of their contents.
dehiscent: Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, asthe capsule of a plant.
dehonestate: To disparage. [Obs.]
dehonestation: A dishonoring; disgracing. [Obs.] Gauden.
dehorn: To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth or the horns of(cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start. See Dishorn."Dehorning cattle." Farm Journal (1886).
dehors: Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record,will, or other instrument.
dehort: To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade. [Obs.]The apostles vehemently dehort us from unbelief. Bp. Ward."Exhort" remains, but dehort, a word whose place neither "dissuade"nor any other exactly supplies, has escaped us. Trench.
dehortation: Dissuasion; advice against something. [R.]
dehortative: Dissuasive. [R.]
dehortatory: Fitted or designed to dehort or dissuade. Bp. Hall.
dehorter: A dissuader; an adviser to the contrary. [Obs.]
dehumanize: To divest of human qualities, such as pity, tenderness, etc.;as, dehumanizing influences.
dehusk: To remove the husk from. [Obs.] "Wheat dehusked upon thefloor." Drant.
dehydrate: To deprive of water; to render free from water; as, todehydrate alcohol.
dehydration: The act or process of freeing from water; also, the conditionof a body from which the water has been removed.
dehydrogenate: To deprive of, or free from, hydrogen.
dehydrogenation: The act or process or freeing from hydrogen; also, thecondition resulting from the removal of hydrogen.
deictic: Direct; proving directly; -- applied to reasoning, and opposedto elenchtic or refutative.
deictically: In a manner to show or point out; directly; absolutely;definitely.When Christ spake it deictically. Hammond.
deification: The act of deifying; exaltation to divine honors; apotheosis;excessive praise.
deified: Honored or worshiped as a deity; treated with supreme regard;godlike.
deifier: One who deifies.
deiformity: Likeness to deity. [Obs.]
deign: To think worthy; to vouchsafe; to condescend; -- followed by aninfinitive.O deign to visit our forsaken seats. Pope.Yet not Lord Cranstone deigned she greet. Sir W. Scott.Round turned he, as not deigning Those craven ranks to see. Macaulay.
deignous: Haughty; disdainful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
deil: Devil; -- spelt also deel. [Scot.] Deil's buckie. See underBuckie.
deinoceras: See Dinoceras.
deinornis: See Dinornis.
deinosaur: See Dinosaur.
deinotherium: See Dinotherium.
deintegrate: To disintegrate. [Obs.]
deiparous: Bearing or bringing forth a god; -- said of the Virgin Mary.[Obs.] Bailey.
deipnosophist: One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learnedconversation at meals.
deis: See Dais.
deism: The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of thosewho acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation.
deist: One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealedreligion; a freethinker.
deistically: After the manner of deists.
deisticalness: State of being deistical.
deitate: Deified. [Obs.] Granmer.
deject: Dejected. [Obs.]
dejecta: Excrements; as, the dejecta of the sick.
dejected: Cast down; afflicted; low-spirited; sad; as, a dejected look orcountenance.-- De*ject"ed*ly, adv.-- De*ject"ed*ness, n.
dejecter: One who casts down, or dejects.
dejectly: Dejectedly. [Obs.]
dejecture: That which is voided; excrements. Arbuthnot.
dejerate: To swear solemnly; to take an oath. [Obs.] Cockeram.
dejeration: The act of swearing solemnly. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
dejeune: A déjeuner.Take a déjeuné of muskadel and eggs. B. Jonson.
dejeuner: A breakfast; sometimes, also, a lunch or collation.
deka-: A prefix signifying ten. See Deca-.
dekabrist: A Decembrist.
dekagram: Same as Decagram.
dekaliter: Same as Decaliter.
dekameter: Same as Decameter.
dekastere: Same as Decastere.
dekle: See Deckle.
del: Share; portion; part. [Obs.] Chaucer.
del credere: An agreement by which an agent or factor, in consideration ofan additional premium or commission (called a del crederecommission), engages, when he sells goods on credit, to insure,warrant, or guarantee to his principal the solvency of the purchaser,the engagement of the factor being to pay the debt himself if it isnot punctually discharged by the buyer when it becomes due.
delaceration: A tearing in pieces. [Obs.] Bailey.
delacrymation: An involuntary discharge of watery humors from the eyes;wateriness of the eyes. [Obs.] Bailey.
delactation: The act of weaning. [Obs.] Bailey.
delaine: A kind of fabric for women's dresses.
delamination: Formation and separation of laminæ or layers; one of themethods by which the various blastodermic layers of the ovum aredifferentiated.
delapsation: See Delapsion. Ray.
delapse: To pass down by inheritance; to lapse. [Obs.]Which Anne derived alone the right, before all other, Of the delapsedcrown from Philip. Drayton.
delapsion: A falling down, or out of place; prolapsion.
delassation: Fatigue.Able to continue without delassation. Ray.
delate: To dilate. [Obs.] Goodwin.
delation: Accusation by an informer. Milman.
delator: An accuser; an informer. [R.] Howell.
delaware: An American grape, with compact bunches of small, amber-coloredberries, sweet and of a good flavor.
delawares: A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of theDelaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory.
delay: A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingeringinactivity; stop; detention; hindrance.Without any delay, on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat. Actsxxv. 17.The government ought to be settled without the delay of a day.Macaulay.
delayer: One who delays; one who lingers.
delayingly: By delays. [R.] Tennyson.
delayment: Hindrance. [Obs.] Gower.
dele: Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which hasbeen put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus
deleble: Capable of being blotted out or erased. "An impression easilydeleble." Fuller.
delectable: Highly pleasing; delightful.Delectable both to behold and taste. Milton.-- De*lec"ta*ble*ness, n.-- De*lec"ta*bly, adv.
delectate: To delight; to charm. [R.]
delectation: Great pleasure; delight.
delectus: A name given to an elementary book for learners of Latin orGreek. G. Eliot.
delegate: Sent to act for a represent another; deputed; as, a delegatejudge. "Delegate power." Strype.
delegation: A kind of novation by which a debtor, to be liberated from hiscreditor, gives him a third person, who becomes obliged in his steadto the creditor, or to the person appointed by him. Pothier.
delegatory: Holding a delegated position. Nash.
delenda: Things to be erased or blotted out.
delenifical: Assuaging pain. [Obs.] Bailey.
delete: To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.I have, therefore, . . . inserted eleven stanzas which do not appearin Sir Walter Scott's version, and have deleted eight. Aytoun.
deleterious: Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious; as, a deleteriousplant or quality; a deleterious example.-- Del`e*te"ri*ous*ly, adv.-- Del`e*te"ri*ous*ness, n.
deletery: Destructive; poisonous. [Obs.] "Deletery medicines." Hudibras.
deletion: Act of deleting, blotting out, or erasing; destruction. [Obs.]Jer. Taylor.A total deletion of every person of the opposing party. Sir M. Hale.
deletitious: Of such a nature that anything may be erased from it; -- saidof paper.
deletive: Adapted to destroy or obliterate. [R.] Evelyn.
deletory: That which blots out. [Obs.] "A deletory of sin." Jer. Taylor.
delf: A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch. [Written also delft, anddelve.] [Obs.]The delfts would be so flown with waters, that no gins or machinescould . . . keep them dry. Ray.
delft: Same as Delftware.
delibate: To taste; to take a sip of; to dabble in. [Obs.]
delibation: Act of tasting; a slight trial. [Obs.] Berkeley.
deliber: To deliberate. [Obs.]
deliberate: To weigh in the mind; to consider the reasons for and against;to consider maturely; to reflect upon; to ponder; as, to deliberate aquestion.
deliberately: With careful consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly;warily; not hastily or rashly; slowly; as, a purpose deliberatelyformed.
deliberateness: The quality of being deliberate; calm consideration;circumspection.
deliberative: Pertaining to deliberation; proceeding or acting bydeliberation, or by discussion and examination; deliberating; as, adeliberative body.A consummate work of deliberative wisdom. Bancroft.The court of jurisdiction is to be distinguished from thedeliberative body, the advisers of the crown. Hallam.
deliberatively: In a deliberative manner; circumspectly; considerately.
deliberator: One who deliberates.
delibrate: To strip off the bark; to peel. [Obs.] Ash.
delibration: The act of stripping off the bark. [Obs.] Ash.
delicately: In a delicate manner.
delicateness: The quality of being delicate.
delicatessen: Relishes for the table; dainties; delicacies. "A dealer indelicatessen".  G. H. Putnam.
delices: Delicacies; delights. [Obs.] "Dainty delices." Spenser.
deliciate: To delight one's self; to indulge in feasting; to revel. [Obs.]
deliciously: Delightfully; as, to feed deliciously; to be deliciouslyentertained.
delict: An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offenseof a lesser degree; a misdemeanor.Every regulation of the civil code necessarily implies a delict inthe event of its violation. Jeffrey.
deligate: To bind up; to bandage.
deligation: A binding up; a bandaging. Wiseman.
delight: To give delight to; to affect with great pleasure; to pleasehighly; as, a beautiful landscape delights the eye; harmony delightsthe ear.Inventions to delight the taste. Shak.Delight our souls with talk of knightly deeds. Tennyson.
delightable: Capable of delighting; delightful. [Obs.]Many a spice delightable. Rom. of R.
delighted: Endowed with delight.If virtue no delighted beauty lack. Shak.
delightedly: With delight; gladly.
delighter: One who gives or takes delight.
delightful: Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction."Delightful bowers." Spenser. "Delightful fruit." Milton.
delighting: Giving delight; gladdening.-- De*light"ing*ly, adv. Jer. Taylor.
delightless: Void of delight. Thomson.
delightous: Delightful. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
delightsome: Very pleasing; delightful. "Delightsome vigor." Grew.Ye shall be a delightsome land, . . . saith the Lord. Mal. iii. 12.-- De*light"some*ly, adv.-- De*light"some*ness, n.
delignate: To clear or strip of wood (by cutting down trees). [R.]Fuller.
delilah: The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence,a harlot; a temptress.Other Delilahs on a smaller scale Burns met with during his Dumfriessojourn. J. C. Shairp.
delimit: To fix the limits of; to demarcate; to bound.
delimitation: The act or process of fixing limits or boundaries; limitation.Gladstone.
delineable: Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated. Feltham.
delineament: Delineation; sketch. Dr. H. More.
delineate: Delineated; portrayed. [R.]
delineator: A perambulator which records distances and delineates aprofile, as of a road.
delineatory: That delineates; descriptive; drawing the outline; delineating.
delineature: Delineation. [Obs.]
delinition: A smearing. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
delinquency: Failure or omission of duty; a fault; a misdeed; an offense; amisdemeanor; a crime.The delinquencies of the little commonwealth would be represented inthe most glaring colors. Motley.
delinquent: Failing in duty; offending by neglect of duty.
delinquently: So as to fail in duty.
deliquate: To melt or be dissolved; to deliquesce. [Obs.] Boyle.
deliquation: A melting. [Obs.]
deliquesce: To dissolve gradually and become liquid by attracting andabsorbing moisture from the air, as certain salts, acids, andalkalies.In very moist air crystals of strontites deliquesce. Black.
deliquescence: The act of deliquescing or liquefying; process by whichanything deliquesces; tendency to melt.
deliquescent: Branching so that the stem is lost in branches, as in mostdeciduous trees. Gray.
deliquiate: To melt and become liquid by absorbing water from the air; todeliquesce. Fourcroy.
deliquiation: The act of deliquating.
deliquium: A melting or dissolution in the air, or in a moist place; aliquid condition; as, a salt falls into a deliquium. [R.]
deliracy: Delirium. [Obs.]
delirament: A wandering of the mind; a crazy fancy. [Obs.] Heywood.
delirancy: Delirium. [Obs.] Gauden.
delirant: Delirious. [Obs.] Owen.
delirate: To madden; to rave. [Obs.]An infatuating and delirating spirit in it. Holland.
deliration: Aberration of mind; delirium. J. Motley.Deliration or alienation of the understanding. Mede.
deliriant: A poison which occasions a persistent delirium, or mentalaberration (as belladonna).
delirifacient: Producing, or tending to produce, delirium.-- n.
delirious: Having a delirium; wandering in mind; light-headed; insane;raving; wild; as, a delirious patient; delirious fancies.-- De*lir"i*ous*ly, adv.-- De*lir"i*ous*ness, n.
delirium: A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions arewild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving orwandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some otherdisease, and so distinguished from mania, or madness.
delit: Delight. [Obs.] Chaucer.
delitable: Delightful; delectable. [Obs.]
delitescence: The sudden disappearance of inflammation.
delitescency: Concealment; seclusion.The mental organization of the novelist must be characterized, tospeak craniologically, by an extraordinary development of the passionfor delitescency. Sir W. Scott.
delitescent: Lying hid; concealed.
delitigate: To chide; to rail heartily. [Obs.]
delitigation: Chiding; brawl. [Obs.]
deliver: Free; nimble; sprightly; active. [Obs.]Wonderly deliver and great of strength. Chaucer.
deliverable: Capable of being, or about to be, delivered; necessary to bedelivered. Hale.
deliverance: Any fact or truth which is decisively attested or intuitivelyknown as a psychological or philosophical datum; as, the deliveranceof consciousness.
deliveress: A female de [R.] Evelyn.
deliverly: Actively; quickly; nimbly. [Obs.]Swim with your bodies, And carry it sweetly and deliverly. Beau. &Fl.
deliverness: Nimbleness; agility. [Obs.]
della crusca: A shortened form of Academia della Crusca, an academy inFlorescence, Italy, founded in the 16th century, especially forconversing the purity of the Italian language.
dellacruscan: Of or pertaining to the Accademia della Crusca in Florence. TheDellacruscan School, a name given in satire to a class of affectedEnglish writers, most of whom lived in Florence, about a. d. 1785.
deloo: The duykerbok.
deloul: A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; theswift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik.
delph: Delftware.Five nothings in five plates of delph. Swift.
delphian: Delphic.
delphic: Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics,an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of LouisXIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).
delphin: A fatty substance contained in the oil of the dolphin and theporpoise; -- called also phocenin.
delphine: Pertaining to the dolphin, a genus of fishes.
delphinic: Pertaining to, or derived from, the dolphin; phocenic.Delphinic acid. (Chem.) See Valeric acid, under Valeric. [Obs.]
delphinine: A poisonous alkaloid extracted from the stavesacre (Delphiniumstaphisagria), as a colorless amorphous powder.
delphinoid: Pertaining to, or resembling, the dolphin.
delphinoidea: The division of Cetacea which comprises the dolphins,porpoises, and related forms.
delphinus: A genus of Cetacea, including the dolphin. See Dolphin,
delta: A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (as, the delta ofthe Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi.
delta connection: One of the usual forms or methods for connecting apparatus to athree-phase circuit, the three corners of the delta or triangle, asdiagrammatically represented, being connected to the three wires ofthe supply circuit.
delta current: The current flowing through a delta connection.
deltafication: The formation of a delta or of deltas. [R.]
deltaic: Relating to, or like, a delta.
delthyris: A name formerly given to certain Silurian brachiopod shells ofthe genus Spirifer. Delthyris limestone (Geol.), one of the divisionsof the Upper Silurian rocks in New York.
deltic: Deltaic.
deltidium: The triangular space under the beak of many brachiopod shells.
deltohedron: A solid bounded by twelve quadrilateral faces. It is ahemihedral form of the isometric system, allied to the tetrahedron.
deltoid: Shaped like the Greek Deltoid leaf (Bot.), a leaf in the formof a triangle with the stem inserted at the middle of the base.-- Deltoid muscle (Anat.), a triangular muscle in the shoulder whichserves to move the arm directly upward.
deludable: Capable of being deluded; liable to be imposed on gullible. SirT. Browne.
deluder: One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor.
delundung: An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis),resembling the civets, but without scent pouches. It is handsomelyspotted.
delusional: Of or pertaining to delusions; as, delusional monomania.
delusive: Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind;deceptive; beguiling; delusory; as, delusive arts; a delusive dream.Delusive and unsubstantial ideas. Whewell.-- De*lu"sive*ly, adv.-- De*lu"sive*ness, n.
delusory: Delusive; fallacious. Glanvill.
delve: To dig or labor with a spade, or as with a spade; to labor as adrudge.Delve may I not
delver: One who digs, as with a spade.
demagog: Demagogue.
demagogism: The practices of a demagogue.
demagogue: A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control themultitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factiousmob orator or political leader.
demagogy: Demagogism.
demain: See Demesne.
demand: To call into court; to summon. Burrill.
demandable: That may be demanded or claimed. "All sums demandable." Bacon.
demandant: One who demands; the plaintiff in a real action; any plaintiff.
demander: One who demands.
demandress: A woman who demands.
demantoid: A yellow-green, transparent variety of garnet found in theUrals. It is valued as a gem because of its brilliancy of luster,whence the name.
demarcate: To mark by bounds; to set the limits of; to separate; todiscriminate. Wilkinson.
demarcation: The act of marking, or of ascertaining and setting a limit;separation; distinction.The speculative line of demarcation, where obedience ought to end andresistance must begin, is faint, obscure, and not easily definable.Burke.
demarch: March; walk; gait. [Obs.]
demarkation: Same as Demarcation.
dematerialize: To deprive of material or physical qualities orcharacteristics.Dematerializing matter by stripping if of everything which . . . hasdistinguished matter. Milman.
deme: A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece),corresponding to a township. Jowett (Thucyd).
demean: Resources; means. [Obs.]You know How narrow our demeans are. Massinger.
demeanance: Demeanor. [Obs.] Skelton.
demeanure: Behavior. [Obs.] Spenser.
demency: Dementia; loss of mental powers. See Insanity.
dement: To deprive of reason; to make mad. [R.] Bale.
dementate: Deprived of reason.Arise, thou dementate sinner! Hammond.
dementation: The act of depriving of reason; madness. Whitlock.
demented: Insane; mad; of unsound mind.-- De*ment"ed*ness, n.
dementia: Insanity; madness; esp. that form which consists in weakness ortotal loss of thought and reason; mental imbecility; idiocy.
demephitize: To purify from mephitic.-- De*meph`i*ti*za"tion, n.
demerge: To plunge down into; to sink; to immerse. [Obs.]The water in which it was demerged. Boyle.
demerit: To deserve praise or blame.
demerse: To immerse. [Obs.] Boyle.
demersed: Situated or growing under water, as leaves; submersed.
demesmerize: To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize.
demesne: A lord's chief manor place, with that part of the landsbelonging thereto which has not been granted out in tenancy; a house,and the land adjoining, kept for the proprietor's own use. [Writtenalso demain.] Wharton's Law Dict. Burrill. Ancient demesne. (Eng.Law) See under Ancient.
demesnial: Of or pertaining to a demesne; of the nature of a demesne.
demi: See Demy, n.
demi-: A prefix, signifying half.
demi-island: Peninsula. [Obs.] Knolles.
demi-tasse: A small cup for, or of, black coffee.
demibastion: A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of oneface and one flank.
demibrigade: A half brigade.
demicadence: An imperfect or half cadence, falling on the dominant insteadof on the key note.
demicannon: A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from thirty tothirty-six pounds. Shak.
demicircle: An instrument for measuring angles, in surveying, etc. Itresembles
demiculverin: A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from nine tothirteen pounds.
demideify: To deify in part. Cowper.
demidevil: A half devil. Shak.
demigod: A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, theoffspring of a deity and a mortal.
demigoddess: A female demigod.
demigorge: Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from theangle of the flank to the center of the bastion.
demigrate: To emigrate. [Obs.] Cockeram.
demigration: Emigration. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
demigroat: A half groat.
demijohn: A glass vessel or bottle with a large body and small neck,inclosed in wickerwork.
demilance: A light lance; a short spear; a half pike; also, a demilancer.
demilancer: A soldier of light cavalry of the 16th century, who carried ademilance.
demilune: A work constructed beyond the main ditch of a fortress, and infront of the curtain between two bastions, intended to defend thecurtain; a ravelin. See Ravelin.
demiman: A half man. [R.] Knolles.
demimonde: Persons of doubtful reputation; esp., women who are kept asmistresses, though not public prostitutes; demireps. Literarydemimonde, writers of the lowest kind.
deminatured: Having half the nature of another. [R.] Shak.
demiquaver: A note of half the length of the quaver; a semiquaver. [R.]
demirep: A woman of doubtful reputation or suspected character; anadventuress. [Colloq.] De Quincey.
demisability: The state of being demisable.
demisable: Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate.
demise: The conveyance or transfer of an estate, either in fee for lifeor for years, most commonly the latter. Bouvier.
demisemiquaver: A short note, equal in time to the half of a semiquaver, or thethirty-second part of a whole note.
demiss: Cast down; humble; submissive. [Obs.]He down descended like a most demiss And abject thrall. Spenser.
demissive: Downcast; submissive; humble. [R.]They pray with demissive eyelids. Lord (1630).
demissly: In a humble manner. [Obs.]
demisuit: A suit of light armor covering less than the whole body, ashaving no protection for the legs below the things, no vizor to thehelmet, and the like.
demitone: Semitone. [R.]
demiurge: The chief magistrate in some of the Greek states.
demiurgic: Pertaining to a demiurge; formative; creative. "Demiurgicpower." De Quincey.
demivill: A half-vill, consisting of five freemen or frankpledges.Blackstone.
demivolt: A half vault; one of the seven artificial motions of a horse,in which he raises his fore legs in a particular manner.
demiwolf: A half wolf; a mongrel dog, between a dog and a wolf.
demobilization: The disorganization or disarming of troops which havepreviously been mobilized or called into active service; the changefrom a war footing to a peace footing.
demobilize: To disorganize, or disband and send home, as troops which havebeen mobilized.
democratical: Democratic.The democratical was democratically received. Algernon Sidney.
democratically: In a democratic manner.
democratism: The principles or spirit of a democracy. [R.]
democratist: A democrat. [R.] Burke.
democratize: To render democratic.
democraty: Democracy. [Obs.] Milton.
demogorgon: , A mysterious, terrible, and evil divinity, regarded by someas the author of creation, by others as a great magician who wassupposed to command the spirits of the lower world. See Gorgon.Orcus and Ades, and the dreaded name Of Demogorgon. Milton.
demography: The study of races, as to births, marriages, mortality, health,etc.-- Dem`o*graph"ic, a.
demoiselle: The Numidian crane (Antropoides virgo); -- so called on accountof the grace and symmetry of its form and movements.
demolish: To throw or pull down; to raze; to destroy the fabric of; topull to pieces; to ruin; as, to demolish an edifice, or a wall.I expected the fabric of my book would long since have beendemolished, and laid even with the ground. Tillotson.
demolisher: One who, or that which, demolishes; as, a demolisher of towns.
demolishment: Demolition.
demolition: The act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying a pile orstructure; destruction by violence; utter overthrow; -- opposed toconstruction; as, the demolition of a house, of military works, of atown, or of hopes.
demolitionist: A demolisher. [R.] Carlyle.
demon: A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place betweenmen and deities in pagan mythology.The demon kind is of an inSydenham.
demoness: A female demon.
demonetization: The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized.
demonetize: To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.They [gold mohurs] have been completely demonetized by the [EastIndia] Company. R. Cobden.
demoniac: One of a sect of Anabaptists who maintain that the demons ordevils will finally be saved.
demoniacally: In a demoniacal manner.
demoniacism: The state of being demoniac, or the practices of demoniacs.
demonial: Of or pertaining to a demon. [Obs.] Cudworth.
demonian: Relating to, or having the nature of, a demon. "Demonianspirits." Milton.
demonianism: The state of being possessed by a demon or by demons.
demoniasm: See Demonianism. [R.]
demonic: Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac. "Demonicambushes." Lowell.
demonism: The belief in demons or false gods.The established theology of the heathen world . . . rested upon thebasis of demonism. Farmer.
demonist: A believer in, or worshiper of, demons.
demonocracy: The power or government of demons.A demonocracy of unclean spirits. H. Taylor.
demonographer: A demonologist. [R.] Am. Cyc.
demonolatry: The worship of demons.
demonologer: One versed in demonology. R. North.
demonologist: One who writes on, or is versed in, demonology.
demonology: A treatise on demons; a supposititious science which treats ofdemons and their manifestations. Sir W. Scott.
demonomagy: Magic in which the aid of demons is invoked; black or infernalmagic. Bp. Hurd.
demonomania: A form of madness in which the patient conceives himselfpossessed of devils.
demonomist: One in subjection to a demon, or to demons. [R.] Sir T.Herbert.
demonomy: The dominion of demons. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.
demonry: Demoniacal influence or possession. J. Baillie.
demonship: The state of a demon. Mede.
demonstrability: The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrableness.
demonstrableness: The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrability.
demonstrably: In a demonstrable manner; incontrovertibly; clearly.Cases that demonstrably concerned the public cause. Clarendon.
demonstrance: Demonstration; proof. [Obs.] Holland.
demonstrate: To exhibit and explain (a dissection or other anatomicalpreparation).
demonstrater: See Demonstrator.
demonstration: The exhibition and explanation of a dissection or otheranatomical preparation.
demonstrative: A demonstrative pronoun; as, "this" and "that" aredemonstratives.
demonstratively: In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly;forcibly.
demonstrativeness: The state or quality of being demonstrative.
demonstrator: A teacher of practical anatomy.
demonstratory: Tending to demonstrate; demonstrative. Johnson.
demorage: Demurrage. [Obs.] Pepys (1663).
demoralization: The act of corrupting or subverting morals. Especially
demoralize: To corrupt or undermine in morals; to destroy or lessen theeffect of moral principles on; to render corrupt or untrustworthy inmorals, in discipline, in courage, spirit, etc.; to weaken in spiritor efficiency.The demoralizing example of profligate power and prosperous crime.Walsh.The vices of the nobility had demoralized the army. Bancroft.
demosthenic: Pertaining to, or in the style of, Demosthenes, the Grecianorator.
demote: To reduce to a lower grade, as in school.
demotic: Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common. Demoticalphabet or character, a form of writing used in Egypt after six orseven centuries before Christ, for books, deeds, and other suchwritings; a simplified form of the hieratic character; -- called alsoepistolographic character, and enchorial character. See Enchorial.
demotics: The department of knowledge relative to the care and culture ofthe people; sociology in its broadest sense; -- in librarycataloguing.
demount: To dismount. [R.]
demountable: Capable of being dismounted; -- said of a form of rim, for anautomobile wheel, which can be removed with its tire from the wheel.
dempne: To damn; to condemn. [Obs.] Chaucer.
demulce: To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
demulcent: Softening; mollifying; soothing; assuasive; as, oil isdemulcent.
demulsion: The act of soothing; that which soothes. Feltham.
demur: To interpose a demurrer. See Demurrer, 2.
demure: To look demurely. [Obs.] Shak.
demurely: In a demure manner; soberly; gravely; -- now, commonly, with amere show of gravity or modesty.They . . . looked as demurely as they could; for 't was a hangingmatter to laugh unseasonably. Dryden.
demureness: The state of being demure; gravity; the show of gravity ormodesty.
demurity: Demureness; also, one who is demure. Sir T. Browne.
demurrable: That may be demurred to. Stormonth.
demurral: Demur; delay in acting or deciding.The same causes of demurral existed which prevented British troopsfrom assisting in the expulsion of the French from Rome. Southey.
demurrer: A stop or pause by a party to an action, for the judgment ofthe court on the question, whether, assuming the truth of the matteralleged by the opposite party, it is sufficient in law to sustain theaction or defense, and hence whether the party resting is bound toanswer or proceed further. Demurrer to evidence, an exception takenby a party to the evidence offered by the opposite party, and anobjecting to proceed further, on the allegation that such evidence isnot sufficient in law to maintain the issue, and a reference to thecourt to determine the point. Bouvier.
demy: Pertaining to, or made of, the size of paper called demy; as, ademy book.
den: A narrow glen; a ravine; a dell. [Old Eng. & Scotch] Shak.
denarcotize: To deprive of narcotine; as, to denarcotize opium.-- De*nar`co*ti*za"tion, n.
denarius: A Roman silver coin of the value of about fourteen cents; the"penny" of the New Testament; -- so called from being worthoriginally ten of the pieces called as.
denary: Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, ordecimal, scale.
denationalization: The or process of denationalizing.
denationalize: To divest or deprive of national character or rights.Bonaparte's decree denationalizes, as he calls it, all ships thathave touched at a British port. Cobbett.An expatriated, denationalized race. G. Eliot.
denature: To deprive of its natural qualities; change the nature of.
denay: To deny. [Obs.]That with great rage he stoutly doth denay. Spenser.
dendrachate: Arborescent or dendritic agate.
dendriform: Resembling in structure a tree or shrub.
dendrite: A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figuresresembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually anoxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallizedmineral having an arborescent form, e. g., gold or silver; anarborization.
dendrocoela: A division of the Turbellaria in which the digestive cavitygives off lateral branches, which are often divided into smallerbranchlets.
dendrolite: A petrified or fossil shrub, plant, or part of a plant.
dendrologist: One versed in the natural history of trees.
dendrologous: Relating to dendrology.
dendrology: A discourse or treatise on trees; the natural history of trees.
dendrometer: An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.
denegate: To deny. [Obs.]
denegation: Denial. [Obs.]
dengue: A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneouseruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those ofrheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever. It occurs in India,Egypt, the West Indies, etc., is of short duration, and rarely fatal.
deniable: Capable of being, or liable to be, denied.
deniance: Denial. [Obs.] E. Hall.
denier: One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or ofChrist.
denigrator: One who, or that which, blackens.
denim: A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc.
denitration: A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid.
denitrification: The act or process of freeing from nitrogen; also, thecondition resulting from the removal of nitrogen.
denitrify: To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen.
denization: The act of making one a denizen or adopted citizen;naturalization. Hallam.
denize: To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; tonaturalize. [Obs.]There was a private act made for denizing the children of RichardHillStrype.
denizenation: Denization; denizening. Abbott.
denizenize: To constitute (one) a denizen; to denizen. Abbott.
denizenship: State of being a denizen.
denmark satin: See under Satin.
dennet: A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind ofgig. ("The term and vehicle common about 1825." Latham.)
denominable: Capable of being denominated or named. Sir T. Browne.
denominate: To give a name to; to characterize by an epithet; to entitle;to name; to designate.Passions commonly denominating selfish. Hume.
denominational: Pertaining to a denomination, especially to a sect or society."Denominational differences." Buckle.
denominationalism: A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to theinterests of a sect or denomination.
denominationalist: One imbued with a denominational spirit. The Century.
denominationally: In a denominational manner; by denomination or sect.
denominative: Connotative; as, a denominative name.
denominatively: By denomination.
denominator: That number placed below the line in vulgar fractions whichshows into how many parts the integer or unit is divided.
denotable: Capable of being denoted or marked. Sir T. Browne.
denotate: To mark off; to denote. [Archaic]These terms denotate a longer time. Burton.What things should be denotated and signified by the color. Urquhart.
denotation: The marking off or separation of anything. Hammond.
denotative: Having power to denote; designating or marking off.Proper names are preëminently denotative; telling us that such asobject has such a term to denote it, but telling us nothing as to anysingle attribute. Latham.
denotement: Sign; indication. [R.]
denotive: Serving to denote.
denouncement: Solemn, official, or menacing announcement; denunciation.[Archaic]False is the reply of Cain, upon the denouncement of his curse. SirT. Browne.
denouncer: One who denounces, or declares, as a menace.Here comes the sad denouncer of my fate. Dryden.
densely: In a dense, compact manner.
denseness: The quality of being dense; density.
densimeter: An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity or densityof a substance.
density: The ratio of mass, or quantity of matter, to bulk or volume,esp. as compared with the mass and volume of a portion of somesubstance used as a standard.
dent: To make a dent upon; to indent.The houses dented with bullets. Macaulay.
dental: Formed by the aid of the teeth; -- said of certainarticulations and the letters representing them; as, d t are dentalletters. Dental formula (Zoöl.), a brief notation used by zoölogiststo denote the number and kind of teeth of a mammal.-- Dental surgeon, a dentist.
dentalism: The quality of being formed by the aid of the teeth.
dentalium: A genus of marine mollusks belonging to the Scaphopoda, havinga tubular conical shell.
dentary: Pertaining to, or bearing, teeth.-- n.
dentate-ciliate: Having the margin dentate and also ciliate or fringed withhairs.
dentate-sinuate: Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate.
dentately: In a dentate or toothed manner; as, dentately ciliated, etc.
dentation: Formation of teeth; toothed form. [R.]How did it [a bill] get its barb, its dentation Paley.
dented: Indented; impressed with little hollows.
dentel: Same as Dentil.
dentelle: An ornamental tooling like lace. Knight.
dentelli: Modillions. Spectator.
dentex: An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentexvulgaris) of the family Percidæ.
denticete: The division of Cetacea in which the teeth are developed,including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.
denticle: A small tooth or projecting point.
denticulation: A diminutive tooth; a denticle.
dentiferous: Bearing teeth; dentigerous.
dentiform: Having the form of a tooth or of teeth; tooth-shaped.
dentifrice: A powder or other substance to be used in cleaning the teeth;tooth powder.
dentigerous: Bearing teeth or toothlike structures.
dentil: A small square block or projection in cornices, a number ofwhich are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in theIonic, Corinthian, and Composite orders.
dentilabial: Formed by the teeth and the lips, or representing a sound soformed.-- n.
dentilated: Toothed.
dentilation: Dentition.
dentilave: A wash for cleaning the teeth.
dentile: A small tooth, like that of a saw.
dentilingual: Produced by applying the tongue to the teeth or to the gums; orrepresenting a sound so formed.-- n.
dentiloquist: One who speaks through the teeth, that is, with the teethclosed.
dentiloquy: The habit or practice of speaking through the teeth, or withthem closed.
dentinal: Of or pertaining to dentine.
dentine: The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largelycomposed. It contains less animal matter than bone, and in the teethof man is situated beneath the enamel.
dentiphone: An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound tothe auditory nerve; an audiphone. Knight.
dentiroster: A dentirostral bird.
dentirostral: Having a toothed bill; -- applied to a group of passerinebirds, having the bill notched, and feeding chiefly on insects, asthe shrikes and vireos. See Illust. (N) under Beak.
dentirostrate: Dentirostral.
dentiscalp: An instrument for scraping the teeth.
dentist: One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair naturalteeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.
dentistry: The art or profession of a dentist; dental surgery.
dentition: The system of teeth peculiar to an animal.
dentize: To breed or cut new teeth. [R.]The old countess . . . did dentize twice or thrice. Bacon.
dentoid: Shaped like a tooth; tooth-shaped.
dentolingual: Dentilingual.
denture: An artificial tooth, block, or set of teeth.
denudate: To denude. [Obs. or R.]
denudation: The laying bare of rocks by the washing away of the overlyingearth, etc.; or the excavation and removal of them by the action ofrunning water.
denude: To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; todivest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands.
denunciate: To denounce; to condemn publicly or solemnly. [R.]To denunciate this new work. Burke.
denunciative: Same as Denunciatory. Farrar.
denunciator: One who denounces, publishes, or proclaims, especially intendedor coming evil; one who threatens or accuses.
denunciatory: Characterized by or containing a denunciation; minatory;accusing; threatening; as, severe and denunciatory language.
denutrition: The opposition of nutrition; the failure of nutrition causingthe breaking down of tissue.
deny: To answer inThen Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. Gen.xviii. 15.
denyingly: In the manner of one denies a request. Tennyson.
deobstruct: To remove obstructions or impediments in; to clear fromanything that hinders the passage of fluids; as, to deobstruct thepores or lacteals. Arbuthnot.
deobstruent: Removing obstructions; having power to clear or open thenatural ducts of the fluids and secretions of the body; aperient.-- n.
deodand: A personal chattel which had caused the death of a person, andfor that reason was given to God, that is, forfeited to the crown, tobe applied to pious uses, and distributed in alms by the highalmoner. Thus, if a cart ran over a man and killed him, it wasforfeited as a deodand.
deodar: A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highlyvalued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and alsogrown in England as an ornamental tree.
deodate: A gift or offering to God. [Obs.]Wherein that blessed widow's deodate was laid up. Hooker.
deodorant: A deodorizer.
deodorization: The act of depriving of odor, especially of offensive odorsresulting from impurities.
deodorize: To deprive of odor, especially of such as results fromimpurities.
deodorizer: He who, or that which, deodorizes; esp., an agent that destroysoffensive odors.
deonerate: To unload; to disburden. [Obs.] Cockeram.
deontological: Pertaining to deontology.
deontologist: One versed in deontology.
deontology: The science relat J. Bentham.
deoperculate: Having the lid removed; -- said of the capsules of mosses.
deoppilate: To free from obstructions; to clear a passage through. [Obs.]Boyle.
deoppilation: Removal of whatever stops up the passages. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
deoppilative: Deobstruent; aperient. [Obs.] Harvey.
deordination: Disorder; dissoluteness. [Obs.]Excess of rideordination. Jer. Taylor.
deosculate: To kiss warmly. [Obs.] -- De*os`cu*la"tion, n. [Obs.]
deoxidate: To deoxidize.
deoxidation: The act or process of reducing from the state of an oxide.
deoxidization: Deoxidation.
deoxidize: To deprive of oxygen; to reduce from the state of an oxide.
deoxidizer: That which removes oxygen; hence, a reducing agent; as, nascenthydrogen is a deoxidizer.
deoxygenate: To deoxidize. [Obs.]
deoxygenation: The act or operation of depriving of oxygen.
deoxygenize: To deoxidize.
depaint: Painted. [Obs.] Chaucer.
depainter: One who depaints. [Obs.]
depardieux: In God's name; certainly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
departable: Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon.
department store: A store keeping a great variety of goods which are arranged inseveral departments, esp. one with dry goods as the principal stock.
departmental: Pertaining to a department or division. Burke.
departure: The desertion by a party to any pleading of the ground taken byhim in his last antecedent pleading, and the adoption of another.Bouvier.
depascent: Feeding. [R.]
depasture: To pasture; to feed; to graze; also, to use for pasture. [R.]Cattle, to graze and departure in his grounds. Blackstone.A right to cut wood upon or departure land. Washburn.
depatriate: To withdraw, or cause to withdraw, from one's country; tobanish. [Obs.]A subject born in any state May, if he please, depatriate. Mason.
depauperate: To make poor; to impoverish.Liming does not depauperate; the ground will last long, and bearlarge grain. Mortimer.Humility of mind which depauperates the spirit. Jer. Taylor.
depauperize: To free from paupers; to rescue from poverty. [R.]
depeach: To discharge. [Obs.]As soon as the party . . . before our justices shall be depeached.Hakluyt.
depectible: Tough; thick; capable of extension. [Obs.]Some bodies are of a more depectible nature than oil. Bacon.
depeculation: A robbing or embezzlement. [Obs.]Depeculation of the public treasure. Hobbes.
depeinct: To paint. [Obs.] Spenser.
dependable: Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy. "Dependablefriendships." Pope.
dependently: In a dependent manner.
depender: One who depends; a dependent.
dependingly: As having dependence. Hale.
depeople: To depopulate. [Obs.]
deperdit: That which is lost or destroyed. [R.] Paley.
deperditely: , adv. Hopelessly; despairingly; in the manner of one ruined;as, deperditely wicked. [Archaic]
deperdition: Loss; destruction. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne.
depertible: Divisible. [Obs.] Bacon.
dephase: To put out of phase, as two parts of a single alternatingcurrent.
dephlegm: To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate. [Obs.] Boyle.
dephlegmate: To deprive of superabundant water, as by evaporation ordistillation; to clear of aqueous matter; to rectify; -- used ofspirits and acids.
dephlegmation: The operation of separating water from spirits and acids, byevaporation or repeated distillation; -- called also concentration,especially when acids are the subject of it. [Obs.]
dephlegmator: An instrument or apparatus in which water is separated byevaporation or distillation; the part of a distilling apparatus inwhich the separation of the vapors is effected.
dephlegmatory: Pertaining to, or producing, dephlegmation.
dephlegmedness: A state of being freed from water. [Obs.] Boyle.
dephlogisticcate: To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle ofinflammability. Priestley. Dephlogisticated air, oxygen gas; -- socalled by Dr. Priestly and others of his time.-- De`phlo*gis`ti*ca"tion, n.
dephosphorization: The act of freeing from phosphorous.
depict: Depicted. Lydgate.
depiction: A painting or depicting; a representation.
depicture: To make a picture of; to paint; to picture; to depict.Several persons were depictured in caricature. Fielding.
depilate: To strip of hair; to husk. Venner.
depilation: Act of pulling out or removing the hair; unhairing. Dryden.
depilatory: Having the quality or power of removing hair.-- n.
depilous: Hairless. Sir t. Browne.
deplanate: Flattened; made level or even.
deplant: To take up (plants); to transplant. [R.]
deplantation: Act of taking up plants from beds.
deplete: To empty or unload, as the vessels of human system, bybloodletting or by medicine. Copland.
depletion: the act or process of diminishing the quantity of fluid in thevessels by bloodletting or otherwise; also excessive evacuation, asin severe diarrhea.
depletive: Able or fitted to deplete.-- n.
depletory: Serving to deplete.
deplication: An unfolding, untwisting, or unplaiting. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
deploitation: Same as Exploitation.
deplorability: Deplorableness. Stormonth.
deplorable: Worthy of being deplored or lamented; lamentable; causinggrief; hence, sad; calamitous; grievous; wretched; as, life's evilsare deplorable.Individual sufferers are in a much more deplorable conditious thanany others. Burke.
deplorableness: State of being deplorable.
deplorably: In a deplorable manner.
deplorate: Deplorable. [Obs.]A more deplorate estate. Baker.
deploration: The act of deploring or lamenting; lamentation. Speed.
deplore: To lament. Gray.
deploredly: Lamentably.
deploredness: The state of being deplored or deplorable. [R.] Bp. Hail.
deplorement: Deploration. [Obs.]
deplorer: One who deplores.
deploringly: In a deploring manner.
deploy: To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) insuch a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; --the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line ofbattle.
deplumate: Destitute or deprived of features; deplumed.
deplumation: A disease of the eyelids, attended with loss of the eyelashes.Thomas.
depolarization: The act of depriving of polarity, or the result of such action;reduction to an unpolarized condition. Depolarization of light(Opt.), a change in the plane of polarization of rays, especially bya crystalline medium, such that the light which had been extinguishedby the analyzer reappears as if the polarization had been anulled.The word is inappropriate, as the ray does not return to theunpolarized condition.
depolarize: To deprive of polarity; to reduce to an unpolarized condition.
depolarizer: A substance used to prevent polarization, as upon the negativeplate of a voltaic battery.
depolish: To remove the polish or glaze from.
depolishing: The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain,leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelian. Knight.
depone: To testify under oath; to depose; to bear witness. [AScotticism]The fairy Glorians, whose credibility on this point can not be calledin question, depones to the confinement of Merlin in a tree. Dunlop.
deponent: One who deposes or testifies under oath; one who givesevidence; usually, one who testifies in writing.
depopulacy: Depopulation; destruction of population. [R.] Chapman.
depopulate: To deprive of inhabitants, whether by death or by expulsion; toreduce greatly the populousness of; to dispeople; to unpeople.Where is this viper, That would depopulate the city Shak.
depopulation: The act of depopulating, or condition of being depopulated;destruction or explusion of inhabitants.The desolation and depopulation [of St.Quentin] were now complete.Motley.
depopulator: One who depopulates; a dispeopler.
deport: Behavior; carrige; demeanor; deportment. [Obs.] "Goddesslikedeport." Milton.
deportation: The act of deporting or exiling, or the state of beingdeported; banishment; transportation.In their deportations, they had often the favor of their conquerors.Atterbury.
deportment: Manner of deporting or demeaning one's self; manner of acting;conduct; carrige; especially, manner of acting with respect to thecourtesies and duties of life; behavior; demeanor; bearing.The gravity of his deportment carried him safe through manydifficulties. Swift.
deporture: Deportment. [Obs.]Stately port and majestical deporture. Speed.
deposable: Capable of being deposed or deprived of office. Howell.
deposal: The act of deposing from office; a removal from the throne.Fox.
depose: To bear witness; to testify under oath; to make deposition.Then, seeing't was he that made you to despose, Your oath, my lord,is vain and frivolous. Shak.
deposit: A natural occurrence of a useful mineral under the conditionsto invite exploitation. Raymond.
depositary: One to whom goods are bailed, to be kept for the bailor withouta recompense. Kent.
deposition: The act of laying down one's testimony in writing; also,testimony laid or taken down in writting, under oath or affirmation,befor some competent officer, and in reply to interrogatories andcross-interrogatories.
depositor: One who makes a deposit, especially of money in bank; -- thecorrelative of depository.
depositum: Deposit.
depositure: The act of depositing; deposition. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
depper: Deeper. [Obs.] Chaucer.
depravation: Change for the worse; deterioration; morbid perversion.
depravedly: In a depraved manner.
depravedness: Depravity. Hammond.
depravement: Depravity. [Obs.] Milton.
depraver: One who deprave or corrupts.
depravingly: In a depraving manner.
depravity: The stae of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state ofmoral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind orheart; absence of religious feeling and principle. Total depravity.See Original sin, and Calvinism.
deprecable: That may or should be deprecated. Paley.
deprecate: To pray against, as an evil; to seek to avert by player; todesire the removal of; to seek deliverance from; to express deepregret for; to disapprove of strongly.His purpose was deprecated by all round him, and he was withdifficulty induced to adandon it. Sir W. Scott.
deprecatingly: In a deprecating manner.
deprecative: Serving to deprecate; deprecatory.-- Dep"re*ca*tive*ly, adv.
deprecator: One who deprecates.
deprecatory: Serving to deprecate; tending to remove or avert evil byprayer; apologetic.Humble and deprecatory letters. Bacon.
depreciate: To lessen in price or estimated value; to lower the worth of;to represent as of little value or claim to esteem; to undervalue.Addison.Which . . . some over-severe phoilosophers may look uponfastidiously, or undervalue and depreciate. Cudworth.To prove that the Americans ought not to be free, we are obliged todepreciate the value of freedom itself. Burke.
depreciative: Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation;undervaluing.-- De*pre"ci*a`tive*ly, adv.
depreciator: One who depreciates.
depreciatory: Tending to depreciate; undervaluing; depreciative.
depredable: Liable to depredation. [Obs.] "Made less depredable." Bacon.
depredate: To subject to plunder and pillage; to despoil; to lay waste; toprey upon.It makes the substance of the body . . . less apt to be consumed anddepredated by the spirits. Bacon.
depredation: The act of depredating, or the state of being depredated; theact of despoiling or making inroads; as, the sea often makesdepredation on the land.
depredator: One who plunders or pillages; a spoiler; a robber.
depredatory: Tending or designed to depredate; characterized by depredation;plundering; as, a depredatory incursion.
depredicate: To proclaim; to celebrate. [R.]
deprehensible: That may be caught or discovered; apprehensible. [Obs.] Petty.-- Dep`re*hen"si*ble*ness, n. [Obs.]
deprehension: A catching; discovery. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
depress: To reduce (an equation) in a lower degree. To depress the pole(Naut.), to cause the sidereal pole to appear lower or nearer thehorizon, as by sailing toward the equator.
depressant: An agent or remedy which lowers the vital powers.
depressed: Having the vertical diameter shorter than the horizontal ortransverse; -- said of the bodies of animals, or of parts of thebodies.
depressingly: In a depressing manner.
depression: The angular distance of a celestial object below the horizon.
depressive: Able or tending to depress or cast down.-- De*press"ive*ness, n.
depressomotor: Depressing or diminishing the capacity for movement, asdepressomotor nerves, which lower or inhibit muscular activity.-- n.
depressor: A muscle that depresses or tends to draw down a part. Depressornerve (Physiol.), a nerve which lowers the activity of an organ; as,the depressor nerve of the heart.
depriment: Serving to depress. [R.] "Depriment muscles." Derham.
deprisure: Low estimation; disesteem; contempt. [Obs.]
deprivable: Capable of being, or liable to be, deprived; liable to bedeposed.Kings of Spain . . . deprivable for their tyrannies. Prynne.
deprivation: the taking away from a clergyman his benefice, or otherspiritual promotion or dignity.
deprivement: Deprivation. [R.]
depriver: One who, or that which, deprives.
deprostrate: Fully prostrate; humble; low; rude. [Obs.]How may weak mortal ever hope to file His unsmooth tongue, and hisdeprostrate style. G. Fletcher.
deprovincialize: To divest of provincial quality or characteristics.
depth: The number of simple elements which an abstract conception ornotion includes; the comprehension or content.
depthen: To deepen. [Obs.]
depucelate: To deflour; to deprive of virginity. [Obs.] Bailey.
depudicate: To deflour; to dishonor. [Obs.]
depulse: To drive away. [Obs.] Cockeram.
depulsion: A driving or thrusting away. [R.] Speed.
depulsory: Driving or thrusting away; averting. [R.] Holland.
depurant: Depurative.
depurate: Depurated; cleansed; freed from impurities. Boyle.
depuration: The act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign orimpure matter, as a liquid or wound.
depurative: Purifying the blood or the humors; depuratory.-- n.
depurator: One who, or that which, cleanses.
depuratory: Depurating; tending to depurate or cleanse; depurative.
depure: To depurate; to purify. [Obs.]He shall first be depured and cleansed before that he shall be laidup for pure gold in the treasures of God. Sir T. More.
depurgatory: Serving to purge; tending to cleanse or purify. [Obs.]Cotgrave.
depurition: See Depuration.
deputable: Fit to be deputed; suitable to act as a deputy. Carlyle.
deputator: One who deputes, or makes a deputation. [R.] Locke.
depute: A person deputed; a deputy. [Scot.]
deputize: To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead;to depute.
dequantitate: To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
dequeen: To remove the queen from (a hive of bees).
deracinate: To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate. [R.]While that the colter rusts That should deracinate such savagery.Shak.
deracination: The act of pulling up by the roots; eradication. [R.]
derail: To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as alocomotive. Lardner.
derailment: The act of going off, or the state of being off, the rails of arailroad.
deranged: Disordered; especially, disordered in mind; crazy; insane.The story of a poor deranged parish lad. Lamb.
derangement: The act of deranging or putting out of order, or the state ofbeing deranged; disarrangement; disorder; confusion; especially,mental disorder; insanity.
deranger: One who deranges.
deray: Disorder; merriment. [Obs.]
derbio: A large European food fish (Lichia glauca).
derbyshire spar: A massive variety of fluor spar, found in Derbyshire, England,and wrought into vases and other ornamental work.
derdoing: Doing daring or chivalrous deeds. [Obs.] "In derdoing arms."Spenser.
dere: To hurt; to harm; to injure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
derecho: A straight wind without apparent cyclonic tendency, usuallyaccompanied with rain and often destructive, common in the prairieregions of the United States.
dereliction: A retiring of the sea, occasioning a change of high-water mark,whereby land is gained.
dereligionize: To make irreligious; to turn from religion. [R.]He would dereligionize men beyond all others. De Quincey.
dereling: Darling. [Obs.] Chaucer.
derf: Strong; powerful; fierce. [Obs.] -- Derf"ly, adv. [Obs.]
deride: To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn toridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at.And the Pharisees, also, . . . derided him. Luke xvi. 14.Sport that wrinkled Care derides. And Laughter holding both hissides. Milton.
derider: One who derides, or laughs at, another in contempt; a mocker; ascoffer.
deridingly: By way of derision or mockery.
derisive: Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision."Derisive taunts." Pope.-- De*ri"sive*ly, adv.-- De*ri"sive*ness, n.
derisory: Derisive; mocking. Shaftesbury.
derivable: That can be derived; obtainable by transmission; capable ofbeing known by inference, as from premises or data; capable of beingtraced, as from a radical; as, income is derivable from varioussources.All honor derivable upon me. South.The exquisite pleasure derivable from the true and beautifulrelations of domestic life. H. G. Bell.The argument derivable from the doxologies. J. H. Newman.
derivably: By derivation.
derival: Derivation. [R.]The derival of e from a. Earle.
derivate: Derived; derivative. [R.] H. Taylor.-- n.
derivation: The operation of deducing one function from another accordingto some fixed law, called the law of derivation, as the ofdifferentiation or of integration.
derivational: Relating to derivation. Earle.
derivative: Obtained by derivation; derived; not radical, original, orfundamental; originating, deduced, or formed from something else;secondary; as, a derivative conveyance; a derivative word. Derivativecirculation, a modification of the circulation found in some parts ofthe body, in which the arteries empty directly into the veins withoutthe interposition of capillaries. Flint.-- De*riv"a*tive*ly, adv.-- De*riv"a*tive*ness, n.
derive: To obtain one substance from another by actual or theoreticalsubstitution; as, to derive an organic acid from its correspondinghydrocarbon.
derivement: That which is derived; deduction; inference. [Obs.]I offer these derivements from these subjects. W. Montagu.
deriver: One who derives.
derk: Dark. [Obs.] Chaucer.
derm: See Dermis.
derma: See Dermis.
dermal: Pertaining to the dermis or true skin.
dermatitis: Inflammation of the skin.
dermatogen: Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a formingcondition.
dermatography: An anatomical description of, or treatise on, the skin.
dermatoid: Resembling
dermatologist: One who discourses on the skin and its diseases; one versed indermatology.
dermatology: The science which treats of the skin, its structure, functions,and diseases.
dermatopathic: Of or pertaining to skin diseases, or their cure.
dermatophyte: A vegetable parasite, infesting the skin.
dermestes: A genus of coleopterous insects, the larvæ of which feed animalsubstances. They are very destructive to dries meats, skins, woolens,and furs. The most common species is D. lardarius, known as the baconbeetle.
dermestoid: Pertaining to or resembling the genus Dermestes.The carpet beetle, called the buffalo moth, is a dermestoid beetle.Pop. Sci. Monthly.
dermic: Pertaining to the dermis; dermal.Underneath each nail the deep or dermic layer of the integument ispeculiarly modified. Huxley.Dermic remedies (Med.), such as act through the skin.
dermis: The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin orepidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, andenderon. See Skin, and Illust. in Appendix.
dermobranchiata: A group of nudibranch mollusks without special gills.
dermobranchiate: Having the skin modified to serve as a gill.
dermohaemal: Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and hæmalstructures; as, the dermohæmal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes.
dermoid: Same as Dermatoid. Dermoid cyst (Med.), a cyst containing skin,or structures connected with skin, such as hair.
dermoneural: Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and neuralstructures; as, the dermoneural spines or dorsal fin rays of fishes.Owen.
dermopathic: Dermatopathic.
dermophyte: A dermatophyte.
dermoptera: The division of insects which includes the earwigs(Forticulidæ).
dermopteran: An insect which has the anterior pair of wings coriaceous, anddoes not use them in flight, as the earwig.
dermopteri: Same as Dermopterygii.
dermopterygii: A group of fishlike animals including the Marsipobranchiata andLeptocardia.
dermoskeleton: See Exoskeleton.
dermostosis: Ossification of the dermis.
dern: A gatepost or doorpost. [Local Eng.] C. Kingsley.
derne: To hide; to skulk. [Scot.]He at length escaped them by derning himself in a foxearth. H.Miller.
dernful: Secret; hence, lonely; sad; mournful. [Obs.] "Dernful noise."Spenser.
dernier: Last; final. Dernier ressort ( Etym
dernly: Secretly; grievously; mournfully. [Obs.] Spenser.
derogant: Derogatory. [R.] T. Adams.
derogate: Diminished in value; dishonored; degraded. [R.] Shak.
derogately: In a derogatory manner.
derogation: An alteration of, or subtraction from, a contract for a sale ofstocks.
derogative: Derogatory.-- De*rog"a*tive*ly, adv. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
derogator: A detractor.
derogatorily: In a derogatory manner; disparagingly. Aubrey.
derogatoriness: Quality of being derogatory.
derogatory: Tending to derogate, or lessen in value; expressing derogation;detracting; injurious; -- with from to, or unto.Acts of Parliament derogatory from the power of subsequentParliaments bind not. Blackstone.His language was severely censured by some of his brother peers asderogatory to their other. Macaulay.Derogatory clause in a testament (Law), a sentence of secretcharacter inserted by the testator alone, of which he reserves theknowledge to himself, with a condition that no will he may makethereafter shall be valid, unless this clause is inserted word forword; -- a precaution to guard against later wills extorted byviolence, or obtained by suggestion.
derotremata: The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma,Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no externalgills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata. [Written also Derotrema.]
derre: Dearer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
derrick: A mast, spar, or tall frame, supported at the top by stays orguys, with suitable tackle for hoisting heavy weights, as stones inbuilding. Derrick crane, a combination of the derrick and the crane,having facility for hoisting and also for swinging the loadhorizontally.
derring: Daring or warlike. [Obs.]Drad for his derring doe and bloody deed. Spenser.
derringer: A kind of short-barreled pocket pistol, of very large caliber,often carrying a half-ounce ball.
derth: Dearth; scarcity. [Obs.] Spenser.
dertrotheca: The horny covering of the end of the bill of birds.
derworth: Precious. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
descanter: One who descants.
descend: To move toward the south, or to the southward.
descendant: Descendent.
descendent: Descending; falling; proceeding from an ancestor or source.More than mortal grace Speaks thee descendent of ethereal race. Pope.
descender: One who descends.
descendibility: The quality of being descendible; capability of beingtransmitted from ancestors; as, the descendibility of an estate.
descending: Of or pertaining to descent; moving downwards. Descendingconstellations or signs (Astron.), those through which the planetsdescent toward the south.-- Descending node (Astron.), that point in a planet's orbit whereit intersects the ecliptic in passing southward.-- Descending series (Math.), a series in which each term isnumerically smaller than the preceding one; also, a series arrangedaccording to descending powers of a quantity.
descendingly: In a descending manner.
descension: The act of going downward; descent; falling or sinking;declension; degradation. Oblique descension (Astron.), the degree orarc of the equator which descends, with a celestial object, below thehorizon of an oblique sphere.-- Right descension, the degree or arc of the equator which descendsbelow the horizon of a right sphere at the same time with the object.[Obs.]
descensional: Pertaining to descension. Johnson.
descensive: Tending to descend; tending downwards; descending. Smart.
descensory: A vessel used in alchemy to extract oils.
descent: Transmission of an estate by inheritance, usually, but notnecessarily, in the descending line; title to inherit an estate byreason of consanguinity. Abbott.
describable: That can be described; capable of description.
describe: To use the faculty of describing; to give a description; as,Milton describes with uncommon force and beauty.
describent: Same as Generatrix.
describer: One who describes.
descrier: One who descries.
descriptive: Tending to describe; having the quality of representing;containing description; as, a descriptive figure; a descriptivephrase; a descriptive narration; a story descriptive of the age.Descriptive anatomy, that part of anatomy which treats of the formsand relations of parts, but not of their textures.-- Descriptive geometry, that branch of geometry. which treats ofthe graphic solution of problems involving three dimensions, by meansof projections upon auxiliary planes. Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ) --De*scrip"tive*ly, adv.-- De*scrip"tive*ness, n.
descrive: To describe. [Obs.] Spenser.
descry: , Discovery or view, as of an army seen at a distance. [Obs.]Near, and on speedy foot; the main descry Stands on the hourlythought. Shak.
desecate: To cut, as with a scythe; to mow. [Obs.]
desecrate: To divest of a sacred character or office; to divert from asacred purpose; to violate the sanctity of; to profane; to put to anunworthy use; -- the opposite of consecrate.The [Russian] clergy can not suffer corporal punishment without beingpreviously desecrated. W. Tooke.The founders of monasteries imprecated evil on those who shoulddesecrate their donations. Salmon.
desecrater: One who desecrates; a profaner. Harper's Mag.
desecration: The act of desecrating; profanation; condition of anythingdesecrated.
desecrator: One who desecrates. "Desecrators of the church." Morley.
desegmentation: The loss or obliteration of division into segments; as, adesegmentation of the body.
desert: That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justlydue; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward;merit.According to their deserts will I judge them. Ezek. vii. 27.Andronicus, surnamed Pius For many good and great deserts to Rome.Shak.His reputation falls far below his desert. A. Hamilton.
deserter: One who forsakes a duty, a cause or a party, a friend, or anyone to whom he owes service; especially, a soldier or a seaman whoabandons the service without leave; one guilty of desertion.
desertful: Meritorious. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
desertless: Without desert. [R.]
desertlessly: Undeservedly. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
desertness: A deserted condition. [R.] "The desertness of the country."Udall.
deserve: To be worthy of recompense; -- usually with ill or with well.One man may merit or deserve of another. South.
deservedly: According to desert (whether good or evil); justly.
deservedness: Meritoriousness.
deserver: One who deserves.
deserving: Desert; merit.A person of great deservings from the republic. Swift.
deshabille: An undress; a careless toilet.
desiccant: Drying; desiccative.-- n.
desiccate: To dry up; to deprive or exhaust of moisture; to preserve bydrying; as, to desiccate fish or fruit.Bodies desiccated by heat or age. Bacon.
desiccation: The act of desiccating, or the state of being desiccated.
desiccative: Drying; tending to dry. Ferrand.-- n. (Med.)
desiccator: A short glass jar fitted with an air-tight cover, andcontaining some desiccating agent, as sulphuric acid or calciumchloride, above which is suspended the material to be dried, orpreserved from moisture.
desiccatory: Desiccative.
desiderable: Desirable. [R.] "Good and desiderable things." Holland.
desiderata: See Desideratum.
desiderate: To desire; to feel the want of; to lack; to miss; to want.Pray have the goodness to point out one word missing that ought tohave been there -- please to insert a desiderated stanza. You cannot. Prof. Wilson.Men were beginning . . . to desiderate for them an actual abode offire. A. W. Ward.
desideration: Act of desiderating; also, the thing desired. [R.] Jeffrey.
desiderative: Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs.
desideratum: Anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a wantgenerally felt and acknowledge.
desidiousness: The state or quality of being desidiose, or indolent. [Obs.] N.Bacon.
desight: An unsightly object. [Obs.]
desightment: The act of making unsightly; disfigurement. [R.]To substitute jury masts at whatever desightment or damage in risk.London Times.
design: To form a design or designs; to plan. Design for, to intend togo to. [Obs.] "From this city she designed for Collin [Cologne]."Evelyn.
designable: Capable of being designated or distinctly marked out;distinguishable. Boyle.
designate: Designated; appointed; chosen. [R.] Sir G. Buck.
designative: Serving to designate or indicate; pointing out.
designator: An officer who assigned to each his rank and place in publicshows and ceremonies.
designatory: Serving to designate; designative; indicating. [R.]
designedly: By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed toaccidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently.
designer: One who produces or creates original works of art ordecoration.
designful: Full of design; scheming. [R.] -- De*sign"ful*ness, n. [R.]Barrow.
designing: Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man.
designless: Without design. [Obs.] -- De*sign"less*ly, adv. [Obs.]
desilver: To deprive of silver; as, to desilver lead.
desilverization: The act or the process of freeing from silver; also, thecondition resulting from the removal of silver.
desilverize: To deprive, or free from, silver; to remove silver from.
desinence: Termination; ending. Bp. Hall.
desinent: Ending; forming an end; lowermost. [Obs.] "Their desinentparts, fish." B. Jonson.
desinential: Terminal.Furthermore, b, as a desinential element, has a dynamic function.Fitzed. Hall.
desipient: Foolish; silly; trifling. [R.]
desirability: The state or quality of being desirable; desirableness.
desirable: Worthy of desire or longing; fitted to excite desire or a wishto possess; pleasing; agreeable.All of them desirable young men. Ezek. xxiii. 12.As things desirable excite Desire, and objects move the appetite.Blackmore.
desirableness: The quality of being desirable.The desirableness of the Austrian alliance. Froude.
desirably: In a desirable manner.
desireful: Filled with desire; eager. [R.]The desireful troops. Godfrey (1594).
desirefulness: The state of being desireful; eagerness to obtain and possess.[R.]The desirefulness of our minds much augmenteth and increaseth ourpleasure. Udall.
desireless: Free from desire. Donne.
desirer: One who desires, asks, or wishes.
desirous: Feeling desire; eagerly wishing; solicitous; eager to obtain;covetous.Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him. John xvi. 19.Be not desirous of his dainties. Prov. xxiii. 3.
desirously: With desire; eagerly.
desirousness: The state of being desirous.
desist: To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often withfrom.Never desisting to do evil. E. Hall.To desist from his bad practice. Massinger.Desist (thou art discern'd, And toil'st in vain). Milton.
desistance: The act or state of desisting; cessation. [R.] Boyle.If fatigue of body or brain were in every case followed by desistance. . . then would the system be but seldom out of working order. H.Spencer.
desistive: Final; conclusive; ending. [R.]
desition: An end or ending. [R.]
desitive: Final; serving to complete; conclusive. [Obs.] "Desitivepropositions." I. Watts.
desk: To shut up, as in a desk; to treasure.
deskwork: Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer. Tennyson.
desman: An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogalemoschata). It is allied to the moles, but is called muscrat by someEnglish writers. [Written also dæsman.]
desmine: Same as Stilbite. It commonly occurs in bundles or tufts ofcrystals.
desmobacteria: See Microbacteria.
desmodont: A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, ofthe genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.
desmognathous: Having the maxillo-palatine bones united; -- applied to a groupof carinate birds (Desmognathæ), including various wading andswimming birds, as the ducks and herons, and also raptorial and otherkinds.
desmoid: Resembling, or having the characteristics of, a ligament;ligamentous.
desmology: The science which treats of the ligaments. [R.]
desmomyaria: The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpæ. See Salpa.
desolately: In a desolate manner.
desolateness: The state of being desolate.
desolater: One who, or that which, desolates or lays waste. Mede.
desolator: Same as Desolater. Byron.
desolatory: Causing desolation. [R.] Bp. Hall.
desophisticate: To clear from sophism or error. [R.] Hare.
desoxalic: Made or derived from oxalic acid; as, desoxalic acid.
despair: To be hopeless; to have no hope; to give up all hope orexpectation; -- often with of.We despaired even of life. 2 Cor. i. 8.Never despair of God's blessings here. Wake.
despairer: One who despairs.
despairful: Hopeless. [Obs.] Spenser.
despairing: Feeling or expressing despair; hopeless.-- De*spair"ing*ly, adv.-- De*spair"ing*ness, n.
desparple: To scatter; to disparkle. [Obs.] Mandeville.
despatch: Same as Dispatch.
despecificate: To discriminate; to separate according to specificsignification or qualities; to specificate; to desynonymize. [R.]Inaptitude and ineptitude have been usefully despecificated. Fitzed.Hall.
despecification: Discrimination.
despect: Contempt. [R.] Coleridge.
despection: A looking down; a despising. [R.] W. Montagu.
despeed: To send hastily. [Obs.]Despeeded certain of their crew. Speed.
despend: To spend; to squander. See Dispend. [Obs.]Some noble men in Spain can despend Howell.
desperado: A reckless, furious man; a person urged by furious passions,and regardless of consequence; a wild ruffian.
desperate: One desperate or hopeless. [Obs.]
desperately: In a desperate manner; without regard to danger or safety;recklessly; extremely; as, the troops fought desperately.She fell desperately in love with him. Addison.
desperateness: Desperation; virulence.
despicability: Despicableness. [R.] Carlyle.
despicable: Fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; mean; vile;worthless; as, a despicable man; despicable company; a despicablegift.
despicableness: The quality of being despicable; meanness; vileness;worthlessness.
despicably: In a despicable or mean manner; contemptibly; as, despicablystingy.
despiciency: A looking down; despection. [Obs.]
despisable: Despicable; contemptible. [R.]
despisal: A despising; contempt. [R.]A despisal of religion. South.
despise: To look down upon with disfavor or contempt; to contemn; toscorn; to disdain; to have a low opinion or contemptuous dislike of.Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Prov. i. 7.Men naturally despise those who court them, but respect those who donot give way to them. Jowett (Thucyd. ).
despisedness: The state of being despised.
despisement: A despising. [R.] Holland.
despiser: One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.
despisingly: Contemptuously.
despite: To vex; to annoy; to offend contemptuously. [Obs.] Sir W.Raleigh.
despiteful: Full of despite; expressing malice or contemptuous hate;malicious.-- De*spite"ful*ly, adv.-- De*spite"ful*ness, n.Haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters. Rom. i. 30.Pray for them which despitefully use you. Matt. v. 44.Let us examine him with despitefulness and fortune. Book of Wisdomii. 19.
despiteous: Feeling or showing despite; malicious; angry to excess; cruel;contemptuous. [Obs.] "Despiteous reproaches." Holland.
despiteously: Despitefully. [Obs.]
despitous: Despiteous; very angry; cruel. [Obs.]He was to sinful man not despitous. Chaucer.- De*spit"ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
despoil: Spoil. [Obs.] Wolsey.
despoiler: One who despoils.
despoilment: Despoliation. [R.]
despoliation: A stripping or plundering; spoliation. Bailey.
despond: To give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughlydisheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed;to take an unhopeful view.I should despair, or at least despond. Scott's Letters.Others depress their own minds, [and] despond at the firstdifficulty. Locke.We wish that . . . desponding patriotism may turn its eyeshitherward, and be assured that foundations of our national powerstill stand strong. D. Webster.
despondence: Despondency.The people, when once infected, lose their relish for happiness [and]saunter about with looks of despondence. Goldsmith.
despondency: The state of desponding; loss of hope and cessation of effort;discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind.The unhappy prince seemed, during some days, to be sunk indespondency. Macaulay.
despondent: Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited; as,a despondent manner; a despondent prisoner.-- De*spond"ent*ly, adv.
desponder: One who desponds.
despondingly: In a desponding manner.
desponsage: Betrothal. [Obs.]Ethelbert . . . went peaceably to King Offa for desponsage ofAthilrid, his daughter. Foxe.
desponsate: To betroth. [Obs.] Johnson.
desponsation: A betrothing; betrothal. [Obs.]For all this desponsation of her . . . she had not set one steptoward the consummation of her marriage. Jer. Taylor.
desponsory: A written pledge of marriage. Clarendon.
desport: See Disport.
despotat: The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of adespot. Freeman.
despotist: A supporter of despotism. [R.]
despotize: To act the despot.
despread: See Dispread.
despumate: To throw off impurities in spume; to work off in foam or scum;to foam.
despumation: The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum orimpurities from liquids; scumming; clarification.
despume: To free from spume or scum. [Obs.]If honey be despumed. Holland.
desquamate: To peel off in the form of scales; to scale off, as the skin incertain diseases.
desquamation: The separation or shedding of the cuticle or epidermis in theform of flakes or scales; exfoliation, as of bones.
desquamatory: An instrument formerly used in removing the laminæ ofexfoliated bones.
dess: Dais. [Obs.]
dessert: A service of pastry, fruits, or sweetmeats, at the close of afeast or entertainment; pastry, fruits, etc., forming the last courseat dinner."An 't please your honor," quoth the peasant, "This same dessert isnot so pleasant." Pope.Dessert spoon, a spoon used in eating dessert; a spoon intermediatein size between a teaspoon and a tablespoon.-- Dessert-spoonful, n., pl. Dessert-spoonfuls, as much as a dessertspoon will hold, usually reckoned at about two and a half fluiddrams.
destemper: A kind of painting. See Distemper.
destin: Destiny. [Obs.] Marston.
destinable: Determined by destiny; fated. Chaucer.
destinably: In a destinable manner.
destinal: Determined by destiny; fated. [Obs.] "The order destinal."Chaucer.
destinate: Destined. [Obs.] "Destinate to hell." Foxe.
destine: To determine the future condition or application of; to setapart by design for a future use or purpose; to fix, as by destiny orby an authoritative decree; to doom; to ordain or preordain; toappoint; -- often with the remoter object preceded by to or for.We are decreed, Reserved, and destined to eternal woe. Milton.Till the loathsome opposite Of all my heart had destined, did obtain.Tennyson.Not enjoyment and not sorrow Is our destined end or way. Longfellow.
destinist: A believer in destiny; a fatalist. [R.]
destituent: Deficient; wanting; as, a destituent condition. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
destitutely: In destitution.
destituteness: Destitution. [R.] Ash.
destitution: The state of being deprived of anything; the state or conditionof being destitute, needy, or without resources; deficiency; lack;extreme poverty; utter want; as, the inundation caused generaldestitution.
destrie: To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
destroyable: Destructible. [R.]Plants . . . scarcely destroyable by the weather. Derham.
destroyer: One who destroys, ruins, kills, or desolates.
destruct: To destroy. [Obs.] Mede.
destructibility: The quality of being capable of destruction; destructibleness.
destructible: Liable to destruction; capable of being destroyed.
destructibleness: The quality of being destructible.
destructionist: One who believes in the final destruction or completeannihilation of the wicked; -- called also annihilationist. Shipley.
destructive: Causing destruction; tending to bring about ruin, death, ordevastation; ruinous; fatal; productive of serious evil; mischievous;pernicious; -- often with of or to; as, intemperance is destructiveof health; evil examples are destructive to the morals of youth.Time's destructive power. Wordsworth.Destructive distillation. See Distillation.-- Destructive sorties ( (Logic), a process of reasoning whichinvolves the denial of the first of a series of dependentpropositions as a consequence of the denial of the last; a species ofreductio ad absurdum. Whately.
destructively: In a destructive manner.
destructiveness: The faculty supposed to impel to the commission of acts ofdestruction; propensity to destroy.
destructor: A destroyer. [R.]Fire, the destructive and the artificial death of things. Boyle.
destruie: To destroy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
desudation: A sweating; a profuse or morbid sweating, often succeeded by aneruption of small pimples.
desuete: Disused; out of use. [R.]
desuetude: The cessation of use; disuse; discontinuance of practice,custom, or fashion.The desuetude abrogated the law, which, before, custom hadestablished. Jer. Taylor.
desulphurate: To deprive of sulphur.
desulphuration: The act or process of depriving of sulphur.
desulphurize: To desulphurate; to deprive of sulphur.-- De*sul`phur*i*za"tion, n.
desultorily: In a desultory manner; without method; loosely; immethodically.
desultoriness: The quality of being desultory or without order or method;unconnectedness.The seeming desultoriness of my method. Boyle.
desultorious: Desultory. [R.]
desume: To select; to borrow. [Obs.] Sir. M. Hale.
desynonymization: The act of desynonymizing.
desynonymize: To deprive of synonymous character; to discriminate in use; --applied to words which have been employed as synonyms. Coleridge.Trench.
detach: To push asunder; to come off or separate from anything; todisengage.[A vapor] detaching, fold by fold, From those still heights.Tennyson.
detachable: That can be detached.
detached: Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected; as, detachedparcels. "Extensive and detached empire." Burke. Detached escapement.See Escapement.
detail: The selection for a particular service of a person or a body ofmen; hence, the person or the body of men so selected. Detaildrawing, a drawing of the full size, or on a large scale, of somepart of a building, machine, etc.-- In detail, in subdivisions; part by part; item; circumstantially;with particularity.
detailer: One who details.
detain: Detention. [Obs.] Spenser.
detainder: A writ. See Detinue.
detainment: Detention. [R.] Blackstone.
detect: Detected. [Obs.] Fabyan.
detecter: One who, or that which, detects or brings to light; one whofinds out what another attempts to conceal; a detector.
detection: The act of detecting; the laying open what was concealed orhidden; discovery; as, the detection of a thief; the detection offraud, forgery, or a plot.Such secrets of guilt are never from detection. D. Webster.
detective: Fitted for, or skilled in, detecting; employed in detectingcrime or criminals; as, a detective officer.
detector: One who, or that which, detects; a detecter. Shak.A deathbed's detector of the heart. Young.Bank-note detector, a publication containing a description of genuineand counterfeit bank notes, designed to enable persons todiscriminate between them.-- Detector l. See under Lock.
detector bar: A bar, connected with a switch, longer than the distancebetween any two consecutive wheels of a train (45 to 50 feet), laidinside a rail and operated by the wheels so that the switch cannot bethrown until all the train is past the switch.
detenebrate: To remove darkness from. [Obs.] Ash.
detent: That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog;especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks thewheelwork in striking.
deter: To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action byfear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc. Addison.Potent enemies tempt and deter us from our duty. Tillotson.My own face deters me from my glass. Prior.
deterge: To cleanse; to purge away, as foul or offending matter from thebody, or from an ulcer.
detergency: A cleansing quality or power. De Foe.
detergent: Cleansing; purging.-- n.
deteriorate: To make worse; to make inferior in quality or value; to impair;as, to deteriorate the mind. Whately.The art of war . . . was greatly deteriorated. Southey.
deterioration: The process of growing worse, or the state of having grownworse.
deteriority: Worse state or quality; inferiority. "The deteriority of thediet." [R.] Ray.
determent: The act of deterring; also, that which deters. Boyle.
determinability: The quality of being determinable; determinableness. Coleridge.
determinable: Capable of being determined, definitely ascertained, decidedupon, or brought to a conclusion.Not wholly determinable from the grammatical use of the words. South.
determinableness: Capability of being determined; determinability.
determinacy: Determinateness. [R.]
determinant: Serving to determine or limit; determinative.
determinate: To bring to an end; to determine. See Determine. [Obs.]The sly, slow hours shall not determinate The dateless limit of thydear exile. Shak.
determinateness: State of being determinate.
determination: A flow, rush, or tendency to a particular part; as, adetermination of blood to the head.
determinative: Having power to determine; limiting; shaping; directing;conclusive.Incidents . . . determinative of their course. I. Taylor.Determinative tables (Nat. Hist.), tables presenting the specificcharacter of minerals, plants, etc., to assist in determining thespecies to which a specimen belongs.
determinator: One who determines. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
determine: To define or limit by adding a differentia.
determined: Decided; resolute. "Adetermined foe."" Sparks.
determinedly: In a determined manner; with determination.
determiner: One who, or that which, determines or decides.
determinism: The doctrine that the will is not free, but is inevitably andinvincibly determined by motives.Its superior suitability to produce courage, as contrasted withscientific physical determinism, is obvious. F. P. Cobbe.
determinist: One who believes in determinism. Also adj.; as, deterministtheories.
deterration: The uncovering of anything buried or covered with earth; ataking out of the earth or ground. Woodward.
deterrence: That which deters; a deterrent; a hindrance. [R.]
deterrent: Serving to deter. "The deterrent principle." E. Davis.
detersion: The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore.
detersive: Cleansing; detergent.-- n.
detersively: In a way to cleanse.
detersiveness: The quality of cleansing.
detestability: Capacity of being odious. [R.] Carlyle.
detestable: Worthy of being detested; abominable; extremely hateful; veryodious; deserving abhorrence; as, detestable vices.Thou hast defiled my sanctuary will all thy detestable things, andwith all thine abominations. Ezek. v. 11.
detestableness: The quality or state of being detestable.
detestably: In a detestable manner.
detestate: To detest. [Obs.] Udall.
detestation: The act of detesting; extreme hatred or dislike; abhorrence;loathing.We are heartily agreed in our detestation of civil war. Burke.
detester: One who detes
dethrone: To remove or drive from a throne; to depose; to divest ofsupreme authority and dignity. "The Protector was dethroned." Hume.
dethronement: Deposal from a throne; deposition from regal power.
dethroner: One who dethrones.
dethronization: Dethronement. [Obs.] Speed.
dethronize: To dethrone or unthrone. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
detinue: A person or thing detained; (Law)
detonate: To explode with a sudden report; as, niter detonates withsulphur.
detonating: from Detonate. Detonating gas, a mixture of two volumes ofhydrogen with one volume of oxygen, which explodes with a loud reportupon ignition.-- Detonating powder, any powder or solid substance, as fulminate ofmercury, which when struck, explodes with violence and a loud report.-- Detonating primer, a primer exploded by a fuse; -- used toexplode gun cotton in blasting operations.-- Detonating tube, a strong tube of glass, usually graduated,closed at one end, and furnished with two wires passing through itssides at opposite points, and nearly meeting, for the purpose ofexploding gaseous mixtures by an electric spark, as in gas analysis,etc.
detonation: An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneousdecomposition or combustion of unstable substances' as, thedetonation of gun cotton.
detonator: One who, or that which, detonates.
detonization: The act of detonizing; detonation.
detonize: To explode, or cause to explode; to burn with an explosion; todetonate.
detorsion: Same as Detortion.
detort: To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; towrest. Hammond.
detortion: The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; atwisting or warping.
detour: A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a directcourse; as, the detours of the Mississippi.
detract: To take away a part or something, especially from one's credit;to lessen reputation; to derogate; to defame; -- often with from.It has been the fashion to detract both from the moral and literarycharacter of Cicero. V. Knox.
detracter: One who detracts; a detractor.Other detracters and malicious writers. Sir T. North.
detractingly: In a detracting manner.
detractious: Containing detraction; detractory. [R.] Johnson.
detractiveness: The quality of being detractive.
detractor: One who detracts; a derogator; a defamer.His detractors were noisy and scurrilous. Macaulay.
detractory: Defamatory by denial of desert; derogatory; calumnious. Sir T.Browne.
detractress: A female detractor. Addison.
detrain: To alight, or to cause to alight, from a railway train. [Eng.]London Graphic.
detrect: To refuse; to decline. [Obs.] "To detrect the battle."Holinshed.
detriment: To do injury to; to hurt. [Archaic]Other might be determined thereby. Fuller.
detrimental: Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful.Neither dangerous nor detrimental to the donor. Addison.
detrimentalness: The quality of being detrimental; injuriousness.
detrital: Pertaining to, or composed of, detritus.
detrite: Worn out.
detrition: A wearing off or away.Phonograms which by process long-continued detrition have reached astep of extreme simplicity. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
detritus: A mass of substances worn off from solid bodies by attrition,and reduced to small portions; as, diluvial detritus.
detrude: To thrust down or out; to push down with force. Locke.
detruncate: To shorten by cutting; to cut off; to lop off.
detruncation: The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body.
detrusion: The act of thrusting or driving down or outward; outwardthrust.-- De*tru"sive, a.
dette: Debt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
detteles: Free from debt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
detumescence: Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen. [R.]Cudworth.
detur: A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate studentas a prize. [Harvard Univ., U. S.]
deturb: To throw down. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
deturbate: To evict; to remove. [Obs.] Foxe.
deturbation: The act of deturbating. [Obs.]
deturn: To turn away. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.
deturpate: To defile; to disfigure. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
deturpation: A making foul. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
deuce: Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.
deuced: Devilish; excessive; extreme. [Low] -- Deu"ced*ly, adv.
deuterocanonical: Pertaining to a second canon, or ecclesiastical writing ofinferior authority; -- said of the Apocrypha, certain Epistles, etc.
deuterogamist: One who marries the second time.
deuterogamy: A second marriage, after the death of the first husband ofwife; -- in distinction from bigamy, as defined in the old canon law.See Bigamy. Goldsmith.
deuterogenic: Of secondary origin; -- said of certain rocks whose materialhas been derived from older rocks.
deuteronomist: The writer of Deuteronomy.
deuteronomy: The fifth book of the Pentateuch, containing the second givingof the law by Moses.
deuteropathic: Pertaining to deuteropathy; of the nature of deuteropathy.
deuterozooid: One of the secondary, and usually sexual, zooids produced bybudding or fission from the primary zooids, in animals havingalternate generations. In the tapeworms, the joints aredeuterozooids.
deuthydroguret: Same as Deutohydroguret.
deutohydroguret: A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogenunited with some other element or radical. [Obs.]
deutoplasm: The lifeless food matter in the cytoplasm of an ovum or a cell,as distinguished from the active or true protoplasm; yolk substance;yolk.
deutoplastic: Pertaining to, or composed of, deutoplasm.
deutosulphuret: A disulphide. [Obs.]
deutoxide: A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of oxygenunited with some other element or radical; -- usually called dioxide,or less frequently, binoxide.
deutzia: A genus of shrubs with pretty white flowers, much cultivated.
devanagari: The character in which Sanskrit is written.
devaporation: The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain.
devast: To devastate. [Obs.] Bolingbroke.
devastate: To lay waste; to ravage; to desolate.Whole countries . . . were devastated. Macaulay.
devastation: Waste of the goods of the deceased by an executor oradministrator. Blackstone.
devastator: One who, or that which, devastates. Emerson.
devastavit: Waste or misapplication of the assets of a deceased person byan executor or an administrator. Bouvier.
devata: A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol. [Written alsodewata.]
deve: Deaf. [Obs.] Chaucer.
develin: The European swift. [Prov. Eng.]
develop: To change the form of, as of an algebraic expression, byexecuting certain indicated operations without changing the value.
developable: Capable of being developed. J. Peile. Developable surface(Math.), a surface described by a moving right line, and such thatconsecutive positions of the generator intersect each other. Hence,the surface can be developed into a plane.
developer: A reagent by the action of which the latent image upon aphotographic plate, after exposure in the camera, or otherwise, isdeveloped and visible.
development: The series of changes which animal and vegetable organismsundergo in their passage from the embryonic state to maturity, from alower to a higher state of organization.
developmental: Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the process ofdevelopment; as, the developmental power of a germ. Carpenter.
devenustate: To deprive of beauty or grace. [Obs.]
devest: To be taken away, lost, or alienated, as a title or an estate.
devex: Bending down; sloping. [Obs.]
devexity: A bending downward; a sloping; incurvation downward; declivity.[R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr.)
devi: ; fem. of Deva. A goddess.
deviant: Deviating. [Obs.]
deviate: To go out of the way; to turn aside from a course or a method;to stray or go astray; to err; to digress; to diverge; to vary.Thus Pegasus, a nearer way to take, May boldly deviate from thecommon track. Pope.
deviation: The voluntary and unnecessary departure of a ship from, ordelay in, the regular and usual course of the specific voyageinsured, thus releasing the underwriters from their responsibility.Deviation of a falling body (Physics), that deviation from a strictlyvertical line of descent which occurs in a body falling freely, inconsequence of the rotation of the earth.-- Deviation of the compass, the angle which the needle of a ship'scompass makes with the magnetic meridian by reason of the magnetismof the iron parts of the ship.-- Deviation of the line of the vertical, the difference between theactual direction of a plumb line and the direction it would have ifthe earth were a perfect ellipsoid and homogeneous, -- caused by theattraction of a mountain, or irregularities in the earth's density.
deviator: One who, or that which, deviates.
deviatory: Tending to deviate; devious; as, deviatory motion. [R.] Tully.
deviceful: Full of devices; inventive. [R.]A carpet, rich, and of deviceful thread. Chapman.
devicefully: In a deviceful manner. [R.]
devil: A dish, as a bone with the meat, broiled and excessivelypeppered; a grill with Cayenne pepper.Men and women busy in baking, broiling, roasting oysters, andpreparing devils on the gridiron. Sir W. Scott.
deviless: A she-devil. [R.] Sterne.
devilet: A little devil. [R.] Barham.
deviling: A young devil. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
devilism: The state of the devil or of devils; doctrine of the devil orof devils. Bp. Hall.
devilize: To make a devil of. [R.]He that should deify a saint, should wrong him as much as he thatshould devilize him. Bp. Hall.
devilkin: A little devil; a devilet.
devilment: Deviltry. Bp. Warburton.
devilry: A dragon fly. See Darning needle, under Darn, v. t.
devilship: The character or person of a devil or the devil. Cowley.
deviltry: Diabolical conduct; malignant mischief; devilry. C. Reade.
devilwood: A kind of tree (Osmanthus Americanus), allied to the Europeanolive.
devirginate: Deprived of virginity. [R.]
devirgination: A deflouring. [R.] Feltham.
devisal: A devising. Whitney.
devise: To give by will; -- used of real estate; formerly, also, ofchattels.
devisee: One to whom a devise is made, or real estate given by will.
deviser: One who devises.
devisor: One who devises, or gives real estate by will; a testator; --correlative to devisee.
devitable: Avoidable. [Obs.]
devitalize: To deprive of life or vitality.-- De*vi`tal*i*za"tion, n.
devitation: An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning. [Obs.] Bailey.
devitrification: The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of beingdevitrified. Specifically, the conversion of molten glassy matterinto a stony mass by slow cooling, the result being the formation ofcrystallites, microbites, etc., in the glassy base, which are thencalled devitrification products.
devitrify: To deprive of glasslike character; to take away vitreous lusterand transparency from.
devocalize: To make toneless; to deprive of vowel quality.-- De*vo`cal*i*za"tion, n.If we take a high vowel, such as (i) [= nearly i of bit], anddevocalize it, we obtain a hiss which is quite distinct enough tostand for a weak (jh). H. Sweet.
devocation: A calling off or away. [R.] Hallywell.
devoid: To empty out; to remove.
devoir: Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; --now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies."Do now your devoid, young knights!" Chaucer.
devolute: To devolve. [Obs.] Foxe.
devolve: To pass by transmission or succession; to be handed over ordown; -- generally with on or upon, sometimes with to or into; as,after the general fell, the command devolved upon (or on) the nextofficer in rank.His estate . . . devolved to Lord Somerville. Johnson.
devolvement: The act or process of devolving;; devolution.
devon: One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country ofDevon, England. Those of pure blood have a deep red color. The small,longhorned variety, called North Devons, is distinguished by thesuperiority of its working oxen.
devonian: Of or pertaining to Devon or Devonshire in England; as, theDevonian rocks, period, or system. Devonian age (Geol.), the age nextolder than the Carboniferous and later than the Silurian; -- calledalso the Age of fishes. The various strata of this age compose theDevonian formation or system, and include the old red sandstone ofGreat Britain. They contain, besides plants and numerousinvertebrates, the bony portions of many large and remarkable fishesof extinct groups. See the Diagram under Geology.
devoration: The act of devouring. [Obs.] Holinshed.
devotary: A votary. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
devote: Devoted; addicted; devout. [Obs.] Milton.
devoted: Consecrated to a purpose; strongly attached; zealous; devout;as, a devoted admirer.-- De*vot"ed*ly, adv.-- De*vot"ed*ness, n.
devotee: One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion;one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies;a bigot.While Father Le Blanc was very devout he was not a devotee. A. S.Hardy.
devotement: The state of being devoted, or set apart by a vow. [R.] Bp.Hurd.
devoter: One who devotes; a worshiper.
devotional: Pertaining to, suited to, or used in, devotion; as, adevotional posture; devotional exercises; a devotional frame of mind.
devotionality: The practice of a devotionalist. A. H. Clough.
devotionally: In a devotional manner; toward devotion.
devoto: A devotee. Dr. J. Scott.
devotor: A worshiper; one given to devotion. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
devourable: That may be devoured.
devourer: One who, or that which, devours.
devouringly: In a devouring manner.
devoutless: Destitute of devotion.-- De*vout"less*ly, adv.-- De*vout"less*ness, n.
devoutness: Quality or state of being devout.
devove: To devote. [Obs.] Cowley.
devow: To disavow; to disclaim. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
devulgarize: To free from what is vulgar, common, or narrow.Shakespeare and Plutarch's "Lives" are very devulgarizing books. E.A. Abbott.
dew: To wet with dew or as with dew; to bedew; to moisten; as withdew.The grasses grew A little ranker since they dewed them so. A. B.Saxton.
dew-point: The temperature at which dew begins to form. It varies with thehumidity and temperature of the atmosphere.
dewar vessel: A double-walled glass vessel for holding liquid air, etc.,having the space between the walls exhausted so as to preventconduction of heat, and sometimes having the glass silvered toprevent absorption of radiant heat; -- called also, according to theparticular shape, Dewar bulb, Dewar tube, etc.
dewclaw: In any animal, esp. of the Herbivora, a rudimentary claw orsmall hoof not reaching the ground.Some cut off the dewclaws [of greyhounds]. J. H. Walsh.
dewdrop: A drop of dew. Shak.
dewfall: The falling of dew; the time when dew begins to fall.
dewiness: State of being dewy.
dewlapped: Furnished with a dewlap.
dewless: Having no dew. Tennyson.
dewret: To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.
dewretting: Dewrotting; the process of decomposing the gummy matter of flaxand hemp and setting the fibrous part, by exposure on a sward to dew,rain, and sunshine.
dewrot: To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. SeeDewretting.
dewworm: See Earthworm.
dewy: Resembling a dew-covered surface; appearing as if covered withdew.
dexter: On the right-hand side of a shield, i. e., towards the righthand of its wearer. To a spectator in front, as in a pictorialrepresentation, this would be the left side. Dexter chief, or Dexterpoint (Her.), a point in the dexter upper corner of the shield, beingin the dexter extremity of the chief, as A in the cut.-- Dexter base, a point in the dexter lower part or base of theshield, as B in the cut.
dexterical: Dexterous. [Obs.]
dexterously: In a dexterous manner; skillfully.
dexterousness: The quality of being dexterous; dexterity.
dextrad: Toward the right side; dextrally.
dextral: Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left. Dextral shell (Zoöl.),a spiral shell the whorls of which turn from left right, or like thehands of a watch when the apex of the spire is toward the eye of theobserver.
dextrality: The state of being on the right-hand side; also, the quality ofbeing right-handed; right-handedness. Sir T. Browne.
dextrally: (adv. Towards the right; as, the hands of a watch rotatedextrally.
dextrer: A war horse; a destrer. [Obs.] "By him baiteth his dextrer."Chaucer.
dextrin: A translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless andodorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., andobtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase. It isof somewhat variable composition, containing several carbohydrateswhich change easily to their respective varieties of sugar. It is sonamed from its rotating the plane of polarization to the right; --called also British gum, Alsace gum, gommelin, leiocome, etc. SeeAchroödextrin, and Erythrodextrin.
dextro-: A prefix, from L. dexter, meaning, pertaining to, or toward,the right; (Chem. & Opt.)
dextrogerous: See Dextrogyrate.
dextroglucose: Same as Dextrose.
dextrogyrate: Same as Dextrorotatory.
dextronic: Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid.Dextronic acid, a sirupy substance obtained by the partial oxidationof various carbohydrates, as dextrose, etc.
dextrorotary: See Dextrotatory.
dextrorotatory: Turning, or causing to turn, toward the right hand; esp.,turning the plane of polarization of luminous rays toward the righthand; as, dextrorotatory crystals, sugars, etc. Cf. Levorotatory.
dextrose: A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (socalled from turning the plane of polarization to the right),occurring in many ripe fruits. Dextrose and levulose are obtained bythe inversion of cane sugar or sucrose, and hence called invertsugar. Dextrose is chiefly obtained by the action of heat and acidson starch, and hence called also starch sugar. It is also formed fromstarchy food by the action of the amylolytic ferments of saliva andpancreatic juice.
dey: A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid. [Obs.]Chaucer.
deye: To die. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dezincification: The act or process of freeing from zinc; also, the conditionresulting from the removal of zinc.
dezincify: To deprive of, or free from, zinc.
dhole: A fierce, wild dog (Canis Dukhunensis), found in the mountainsof India. It is remarkable for its propensity to hunt the tiger andother wild animals in packs.
dhony: A Ceylonese boat. See Doni.
dhow: A coasting vessel of Arabia, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean.It has generally but one mast and a lateen sail. [Also written dow.]
di-: A prefix, signifying twofold, double, twice; (Chem.)
diabase: A basic, dark-colored, holocrystalline, igneous rock,consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and pyroxene withmagnetic iron; -- often limited to rocks pretertiary in age. Itincludes part of what was early called greenstone.
diabaterial: Passing over the borders. [R.] Mitford.
diabetes: A disease which is attended with a persistent, excessivedischarge of urine. Most frequently the urine is not only increasedin quantity, but contains saccharine matter, in which case thedisease is generally fatal. Diabetes mellitus Etym
diabolify: To ascribed diabolical qualities to; to change into, or torepresent as, a devil. [R.] Farindon.
diabolize: To render diabolical. [R.]
diabolo: An old game or sport (revived under this name) consisting inwhirling on a string, fastened to two sticks, a small somewhat spool-shaped object (called the diabolo) so as to balance it on a string,toss it in the air and catch it, etc.
diacatholicon: A universal remedy; -- name formerly to a purgative electuary.
diacaustic: Pertaining to, or possessing the properties of, a species ofcaustic curves formed by refraction. See Caustic surface, underCaustic.
diacid: Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturatingtwo acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid. Cf. Dibasic, a., andBiacid.
diacodium: A sirup made of poppies.
diaconal: Of or pertaining to a deacon.
diaconate: The office of a deacon; deaconship; also, a body or board ofdeacons.
diacope: Tmesis.
diacoustic: Pertaining to the science or doctrine of refracted sounds.
diacoustics: That branch of natural philosophy which treats of theproperties of sound as affected by passing through different mediums;-- called also diaphonics. See the Note under Acoustics.
diactinic: Capable of transmitting the chemical or actinic rays of light;as, diactinic media.
diadelphia: A Linnæan class of plants whose stamens are united into twobodies or bundles by their filaments.
diadem: An arch rising from the rim of a crown (rarely also of acoronet), and uniting with others over its center. Diadem lemur.(Zoöl.) See Indri.-- Diadem spider (Zoöl.), the garden spider.
diadrom: A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of apendulum. [Obs.] Locke.
diaeretic: Caustic. [Obs.]
diageotropic: Relating to, or exhibiting, diageotropism.
diageotropism: The tendency of organs (as roots) of plants to assume aposition oblique or transverse to a direction towards the center ofthe earth.
diaglyph: An intaglio. Mollett.
diagnose: To ascertain by diagnosis; to diagnosticate. See Diagnosticate.
diagnosis: The art or act of recognizing the presence of disease from itssigns or symptoms, and deciding as to its character; also, thedecision arrived at.
diagnostic: Pertaining to, or furnishing, a diagnosis; indicating thenature of a disease.
diagnosticate: To make a diagnosis of; to recognize by its symptoms, as adisease.
diagnostics: That part of medicine which has to do with ascertaining thenature of diseases by means of their symptoms or signs.His rare skill in diagnostics. Macaulay.
diagometer: A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the drypile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted bydifferent bodies, or to determine their conducting power. Nichol.
diagonal: Joining two not adjacent angles of a quadrilateral ormultilateral figure; running across from corner to corner; crossingat an angle with one of the sides. Diagonal bond (Masonry),herringbone work. See Herringbone, a.-- Diagonal built (Shipbuilding), built by forming the outer skin oftwo layers of planking, making angles of about 45º with the keel, inopposite directions.-- Diagonal cleavage. See under Cleavage.-- Diagonal molding (Arch.), a chevron or zigzag molding.-- Diagonal rib. (Arch.) See Cross-springer.-- Diagonal scale, a scale which consists of a set of parallellines, with other lines crossing them obliquely, so that theirintersections furnish smaller subdivisions of the unit of measurethan could be conveniently marked on a plain scale.-- Diagonal stratification. (Geol.) Same as Cross bedding, underCross, a.
diagonally: In a diagonal direction.
diagonial: Diagonal; diametrical; hence; diametrically opposed. [Obs.]Sin can have no tenure by law at all, but is rather an eternaloutlaw, and in hostility with law past all atonement; both diagonalcontraries, as much allowing one another as day and night together inone hemisphere. Milton.
diagram: A figure or drawing made to illustrate a statement, orfacilitate a demonstration; a plan.
diagrammatic: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a diagram; showing bydiagram.-- Di`a*gram*mat"ic*ly, adv.
diagraph: A drawing instrument, combining a protractor and scale.
diagraphics: The art or science of descriptive drawing; especially, the artor science of drawing by mechanical appliances and mathematical rule.
diaheliotropic: Relating or, or manifesting, diaheliotropism.
diaheliotropism: A tendency of leaves or other organs of plants to have theirdorsal surface faced towards the rays of light.
dial: To survey with a dial. Raymond.
dialectal: Relating to a dialect; dialectical; as, a dialectical variant.
dialectic: Same as Dialectics.Plato placed his dialectic above all sciences. Liddell & Scott.
dialectically: In a dialectical manner.
dialectician: One versed in dialectics; a logician; a reasoner.
dialectics: That branch of logic which teaches the rules and modes ofreasoning; the application of logical principles to discursivereasoning; the science or art of discriminating truth from error;logical discussion.
dialectology: That branch of philology which is devoted to the considerationof dialects. Beck.
dialector: One skilled in dialectics.
dialist: A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing.
diallage: A figure by which arguments are placed in various points ofview, and then turned to one point. Smart.
diallel: Meeting and intersecting, as lines; not parallel; -- opposed toparallel. [Obs.] Ash.
diallyl: A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting oftwo allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series.
dialogical: Relating to a dialogue; dialogistical. Burton.
dialogically: In the manner or nature of a dialogue. Goldsmith.
dialogism: An imaginary speech or discussion between two or more;dialogue. Fulke.
dialogist: Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of adialogue.-- Di*al`o*gis"tic*al*ly, adv.
dialogite: Native carbonate of manganese; rhodochrosite.
dialogize: To discourse in dialogue. Fotherby.
dialogue: To take part in a dialogue; to dialogize. [R.] Shak.
dialypetalous: Having separate petals; polypetalous.
dialysis: Diæresis. See Diæresis,
dialytic: Having the quality of unloosing or separating. Clarke. Dialytictelescope, an achromatic telescope in which the colored dispersionproduced by a single object lens of crown glass is corrected by asmaller concave lens, or combination of lenses, of high dispersivepower, placed at a distance in the narrower part of the convergingcone of rays, usually near the middle of the tube.
dialyzate: The material subjected to dialysis.
dialyzation: The act or process of dialysis.
dialyze: To separate, prepare, or obtain, by dialysis or osmose; to passthrough an animal membrane; to subject to dialysis. [Written alsodialyse.]
dialyzed: Prepared by diffusion through an animal membrane; as, dialyzediron.
dialyzer: The instrument or medium used to effect chemical dialysis.
diamagnet: A body having diamagnetic polarity.
diamagnetic: Pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, diamagnetism;taking, or being of a nature to take, a position at right angles tothe lines of magnetic force. See Paramagnetic. Diamagneticattraction. See under Attraction.
diamagnetically: In the manner of, or according to, diamagnetism.
diamantiferous: Yielding diamonds.
diamantine: Adamantine. [Obs.]
diameter: The distance through the lower part of the shaft of a column,used as a standard measure for all parts of the order. See Module.Conjugate diameters. See under Conjugate.
diametral: Pertaining to a diameter; diametrical. Diametral curve,Diametral surface (Geom.), any line or surface which bisects a systemof parallel chords drawn in a curve or surface.-- Diametral planes (Crystal.), planes in which two of the axes lie.
diametrally: Diametrically.
diametrically: In a diametrical manner; directly; as, diametrically opposite.Whose principles were diametrically opposed to his. Macaulay.
diamide: Any compound containing two amido groups united with one ormore acid or negative radicals, -- as distinguished from a diamine.Cf. Amido acid, under Amido, and Acid amide, under Amide.
diamido-: A prefix or combining form of Diamine.
diamine: A compound containing two amido groups united with one or morebasic or positive radicals, -- as contrasted with a diamide.
diamond: A pointed projection, like a four-sided pyramid, used forornament in lines or groups.
diamond state: Delaware; -- a nickname alluding to its small size.
diamond-back: The salt-marsh terrapin of the Atlantic coast (Malacoclemmyspalustris).
diamond-shaped: Shaped like a diamond or rhombus.
diamondize: To set with diamonds; to adorn; to enrich. [R.]Diamondizing of your subject. B. Jonson.
diamylene: A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H20, of the ethylene series, regardedas a polymeric form of amylene.
dian: , Diana. [Poetic]
diana: The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess whopresided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with theGreek goddess Artemis.And chaste Diana haunts the forest shade. Pope.Diana monkey (Zoöl.), a handsome, white-bearded monkey of West Africa(Cercopithecus Diana).
diandria: A Linnæan class of plants having two stamens.
diandrian: Diandrous.
diandrous: Of or pertaining to the class Diandria; having two stamens.
dianium: Same as Columbium. [Obs.]
dianoetic: Pertaining to the discursive faculty, its acts or products.I would employ . . . dianoetic to denote the operation of thediscursive, elaborative, or comparative faculty. Sir W. Hamilton.
dianoialogy: The science of the dianoetic faculties, and their operations.Sir W. Hamilton.
dianthus: A genus of plants containing some of the most popular ofcultivated flowers, including the pink, carnation, and Sweet William.
diapase: Same as Diapason. [Obs.]A tuneful diapase of pleasures. Spenser.
diapasm: Powdered aromatic herbs, sometimes made into little balls andstrung together. [Obs.]
diapason: The octave, or interval which includes all the tones of thediatonic scale.
diapedesis: The passage of the corpuscular elements of the blood from theblood vessels into the surrounding tissues, without rupture of thewalls of the blood vessels.
diapente: The interval of the fifth.
diaper: Surface decoration of any sort which consists of the constantrepetition of one or more simple figures or units of design evenlyspaced.
diapering: Same as Diaper, n.,
diaphane: A woven silk stuff with transparent and colored figures; diaperwork.
diaphaned: Transparent or translucent. [R.]
diaphaneity: The quality of being diaphanous; transparency; pellucidness.
diaphanic: Having power to transmit light; transparent; diaphanous.
diaphanie: The art of imitating
diaphanometer: An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air.
diaphanoscope: A dark box constructed for viewing transparent pictures, withor without a lens.
diaphanotype: A colored photograph produced by superimposing a translucentcolored positive over a strong uncolored one.
diaphanous: Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent ortransparent; pellucid; clear.Another cloud in the region of them, light enough to be fantastic anddiaphanous. Landor.
diaphanously: Translucently.
diaphemetric: Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility ofparts; as, diaphemetric compasses. Dunglison.
diaphonics: The doctrine of refracted sound; diacoustics.
diaphoresis: Perspiration, or an increase of perspiration.
diaphoretic: A medicine or agent which promotes perspiration.
diaphote: An instrument designed for transmitting pictures by telegraph.Fallows.
diaphragm: The muscular and tendinous partition separating the cavity ofthe chest from that of the abdomen; the midriff.
diaphragmatic: Pertaining to a diaphragm; as, diaphragmatic respiration; thediaphragmatic arteries and nerves.
diaphysis: An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.
diapnoic: Slightly increasing an insensible perspiration; mildlydiaphoretic.-- n.
diapophysical: Pertaining to a diapophysis.
diapophysis: The dorsal transverse, or tubercular, process of a vertebra.See Vertebra.
diarchy: A form of government in which the supreme power is vested intwo persons.
diarist: One who keeps a diary.
diarthrodial: Relating to diarthrosis, or movable articulations.
diarthrosis: A form of articulation which admits of considerable motion; acomplete joint; abarticulation. See Articulation.
diary: A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; ajournal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, adiary of the weather; a physician's diary.
diaspore: A hydrate of alumina, often occurring in white lamellar masseswith brilliant pearly luster; -- so named on account of itsdecrepitating when heated before the blowpipe.
diastase: A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable of converting starchand dextrin into sugar.
diastasic: Pertaining to, or consisting of, diastase; as, diastasicferment.
diastasis: A forcible of bones without fracture.
diastatic: Relating to diastase; having the properties of diastase;effecting the conversion of starch into sugar.The influence of acids and alkalies on the diastatic action ofsaliva. Lauder Brunton.
diastema: A vacant space, or gap, esp. between teeth in a jaw.
diaster: A double star; -- applied to the nucleus of a cell, when,during cell division, the loops of the nuclear network separate intotwo groups, preparatory to the formation of two daughter nuclei. SeeKaryokinesis.
diastole: The rhythmical expansion or dilatation of the heart andarteries; -- correlative to systole, or contraction.
diastolic: Of or pertaining to diastole.
diastyle: See under Intercolumniation.
diatessaron: The interval of a fourth.
diathermal: Freely permeable by radiant heat.
diathermanism: The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiantheat. Nichol.
diathermanous: Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; -- opposed to athermanous.
diathermic: Affording a free passage to heat; as, diathermic substances.Melloni.
diathermometer: An instrument for examining the thermal resistance or heat-conducting power of liquids.
diathermous: Same as Diathermal.
diathesis: Bodily condition or constitution, esp. a morbid habit whichpredisposes to a particular disease, or class of diseases.
diathetic: Pertaining to, or dependent on, a diathesis or specialconstitution of the body; as, diathetic disease.
diatom: One of the Diatomaceæ, a family of minute unicellular Alg¨aving a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individualmultiplying by spontaneous division. By some authors diatoms arecalled Bacillariæ, but this word is not in general use.
diatomous: Having a single, distinct, diagonal cleavage; -- said ofcrystals. Mohs.
diatonic: Pertaining to the scale of eight tones, the eighth of which isthe octave of the first. Diatonic scale (Mus.), a scale consisting ofeight sounds with seven intervals, of which two are semitones andfive are whole tones; a modern major or minor scale, as distinguishedfrom the chromatic scale.
diatonically: In a diatonic manner.
diatribe: A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, anacrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railinglanguage; a philippic.The ephemeral diatribe of a faction. John Morley.
diatribist: One who makes a diatribe or diatribes.
diatryma: An extinct eocene bird from New Mexico, larger than theostrich.
diazo-: A combining form (also used adjectively), meaning pertainingto, or derived from, a series of compounds containing a radical oftwo nitrogen atoms, united usually to an aromatic radical; as, diazo-benzene, C6H5.N2.OH.
diazotize: To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds,or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange orsubstitution.
dib: To dip. [Prov. Eng.] Walton.
dibasic: Having two acid hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basicatoms or radicals, in forming salts; bibasic; -- said of acids, asoxalic or sulphuric acids. Cf. Diacid, Bibasic.
dibasicity: The property or condition of being dibasic.
dibber: A dibble. Halliwell.
dibble: A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in whichno set out plants or to plant seeds.
dibbler: One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the groundfor seed.
dibranchiata: An order of cephalopods which includes those with two gills, anapparatus for emitting an inky fluid, and either eight or tencephalic arms bearing suckers or hooks, as the octopi and squids. SeeCephalopoda.
dibranchiate: Having two gills.-- n.
dibs: A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in theEast. Johnston.
dibstone: A pebble used in a child's game called dibstones. Locke.
dibutyl: A liquid hydrocarbon, C8H18, of the marsh-gas series, being oneof several octanes, and consisting of two butyl radicals. Cf. Octane.
dicacious: Talkative; pert; saucy. [Obs.]
dicacity: Pertness; sauciness. [Obs.]
dicalcic: Having two atoms or equivalents of calcium to the molecule.
dicarbonic: Containing two carbon residues, or two carboxyl or radicals;as, oxalic acid is a dicarbonic acid.
dicast: A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modernjuryman.
dicastery: A court of justice; judgment hall. [R.] J. S. Mill.
dice: Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also,the game played with dice. See Die, n. Dice coal, a kind of coaleasily splitting into cubical fragments. Brande & C.
dicebox: A box from which dice are thrown in gaming. Thackeray.
dicentra: A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred orheart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the moreshowy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis). [Corruptly written dielytra.]
dicephalous: Having two heads on one body; double-headed.
dicer: A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester.As false as dicers' oaths. Shak.
dich: To ditch. [Obs.]
dichastic: Capable of subdividing spontaneously.
dichlamydeous: Having two coverings, a calyx and in corolla.
dichloride: Same as Bichloride.
dichogamous: Manifesting dichogamy.
dichogamy: The condition of certain species of plants, in which thestamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plantscan never fertilize themselves.
dichotomist: One who dichotomizes. Bacon.
dichotomize: To exhibit as a half disk. See Dichotomy,
dichotomous: Regularly dividing by pairs from bottom to top; as, adichotomous stem.-- Di*chot"o*mous*ly, adv.
dichotomy: That phase of the moon in which it appears bisected, or showsonly half its disk, as at the quadratures.
dichroic: Having the property of dichroism; as, a dichroic crystal.
dichroiscope: Same as Dichroscope.
dichroism: The property of presenting different colors by transmittedlight, when viewed in two different directions, the colors beingunlike in the direction of unlike or unequal axes.
dichroite: Iolite; -- so called from its presenting two different colorswhen viewed in two different directions. See Iolite.
dichroitic: Dichroic.
dichromate: A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acidradical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.
dichromatic: Having two color varieties, or two phases differing in color,independently of age or sex, as in certain birds and insects.
dichromatism: The state of being dichromatic.
dichromic: Furnishing or giving two colors; -- said of defective vision,in which all the compound colors are resolvable into two elementsinstead of three. Sir J. Herschel.
dichroous: Dichroic.
dichroscope: An instrument for examining the dichroism of crystals.
dichroscopic: Pertaining to the dichroscope, or to observations with it.
dickcissel: The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana).
dickens: The devil. [A vulgar euphemism.]I can not tell what the dickens his name is. Shak.
dicker: To negotiate a dicker; to barter. [U.S.] "Ready to dicker. andto swap." Cooper.
diclinic: Having two of the intersections between the three axes oblique.See Crystallization.
diclinous: Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers. Gray.
dicoccous: Composed pf two coherent, one-seeded carpels; as, a dicoccouscapsule.
dicotyledon: A plant whose seeds divide into two seed lobes, or cotyledons,in germinating.
dicotyledonous: Having two cotyledons or seed lobes; as, a dicotyledonousplant.
dicrotism: A condition in which there are two beats or waves of thearterial pulse to each beat of the heart.
dicta: See Dictum.
dictagraph: Var. of Dictograph.
dictamen: A dictation or dictate. [R.] Falkland.
dictamnus: A suffrutescent, D. Fraxinella (the only species), with strongperfume and showy flowers. The volatile oil of the leaves is highlyinflammable.
dictaphone: A form of phonographic recorder and reproducer adapted for usein dictation, as in business.
dictate: A statement delivered with authority; an order; a command; anauthoritative rule, principle, or maxim; a prescription; as, listento the dictates of your conscience; the dictates of the gospel.I credit what the Grecian dictates say. Prior.
dictatorian: Dictatorial. [Obs.]
dictatorship: The office, or the term of office, of a dictator; hence,absolute power.
dictatory: Dogmatical; overbearing; dictatorial. Milton.
dictatress: A woman who dictates or commands.Earth's chief dictatress, ocean's mighty queen. Byron.
dictatrix: A dictatress.
dictature: Office of a dictator; dictatorship. [R.] Bacon.
diction: Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction,disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard toclearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as,the diction of Chaucer's poems.His diction blazes up into a sudden explosion of prophetic grandeur.De Quincey.
dictionalrian: A lexicographer. [R.]
dictograph: A telephonic instrument for office or other similar use, havinga sound-magnifying device enabling the ordinary mouthpiece to bedispensed with. Much use has been made of it for overhearing, or forrecording, conversations for the purpose of obtaining evidence foruse in litigation.
dictyogen: A plant with netveined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos,belonging to the class Dictyogenæ, proposed by Lindley for the ordersDioscoreaceæ, Smilaceæ, Trilliaceæ, etc.
dicyanide: A compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups orradicals; -- called also bicyanide.
dicyemata: An order of worms parasitic in cephalopods. They are remarkablefor the extreme simplicity of their structure. The embryo exists intwo forms.
dicyemid: Like or belonging to the Dicyemata.-- n.
dicynodont: One of a group of extinct reptiles having the jaws armed with ahorny beak, as in turtles, and in the genus Dicynodon, supportingalso a pair of powerful tusks. Their remains are found in triassicstrata of South Africa and India.
did: of Do.
didactic: A treatise on teaching or education. [Obs.] Milton.
didactically: In a didactic manner.
didacticism: The didactic method or system.
didacticity: Aptitude for teaching. Hare.
didactics: The art or science of teaching.
didactyl: An animal having only two digits.
didactylous: Having only two digits; two-toed.
didal: A kind of triangular spade. [Obs.]
didapper: See Dabchick.
didascalar: Didascalic. [R.]
didascalic: Didactic; preceptive. [R.] Prior.
diddle: To totter, as a child in walking. [Obs.] Quarles.
diddler: A cheat. [Colloq.] Jeremy Diddler, a character in a play byJames Kenney, entitled "Raising the wind." The name is applied to anyneedy, tricky, constant borrower; a confidence man.
didelphia: The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. SeeMarsupialia.
didelphian: Of or relating to the Didelphia.-- n.
didelphic: Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia.
didelphid: Same as Didelphic.
didelphous: Didelphic.
didelphyc: Same as Didelphic.
didelphys: Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to anAmerican genus which includes the opossums, of which there are manyspecies. See Opossum. [Written also Didelphis.] See Illustration inAppendix.  Cuvier.
didine: Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo.
dido: A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper. To cut a dido, to play atrick; to cut a caper; -- perhaps so called from the trick of Dido,who having bought so much land as a hide would cover, is said to havecut it into thin strips long enough to inclose a spot for a citadel.
didonia: The curve which on a given surface and with a given perimetercontains the greatest area. Tait.
didst: , the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.
diducement: Diduction; separation into distinct parts. Bacon.
diduction: The act of drawing apart; separation.
didym: See Didymium.
didymium: A rare metallic substance usually associated with the metalcerium; -- hence its name. It was formerly supposed to be an element,but has since been found to consist of two simpler elementarysubstances, neodymium and praseodymium. See Neodymium, andPraseodymium.
didymous: Growing in pairs or twins.
didynamia: A Linnæan class of plants having four stamens disposed in pairsof unequal length.
didynamian: Didynamous.
didynamous: Of or pertaining to the Didynamia; containing four stamensdisposed in pairs of unequal length.
die: To disappear gradually in another surface, as where moldingsare lost in a sloped or curved face.
diedral: The same as Dihedral.
diegesis: A narrative or history; a recital or relation.
dielectric: Any substance or medium that transmits the electric force by aprocess different from conduction, as in the phenomena of induction;a nonconductor. separating a body electrified by induction, from theelectrifying body.
dielytra: See Dicentra.
diencephalon: The interbrain or thalamencephalon; -- sometimes abbreviated todien. See Thalamencephalon.
dieresis: Same as Diæresis.
dies irae: Day of wrath; -- the name and beginning of a famous mediævalLatin hymn on the Last Judgment.
dies juridicus: A court day.
dies non: A day on which courts are not held, as Sunday or any legalholiday.
diesinker: An engraver of dies for stamping coins, medals, etc.
diesinking: The process of engraving dies.
diesis: A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used inthe mathematical calculation of intervals.
diestock: A stock to hold the dies used for cutting screws.
diet: A legislative or administrative assembly in Germany, Poland,and some other countries of Europe; a deliberative convention; acouncil; as, the Diet of Worms, held in 1521.
dietarian: One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; adieter.
dietary: Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet.
dieter: One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food,according to hygienic rules.
dietetically: In a dietetical manner.
dietetics: That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to dietor food; rules for diet.To suppose that the whole of dietetics lies in determining whether ornot bread is more nutritive than potatoes. H. Spencer.
dietetist: A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure ofdiseases. Dunglison.
diethylamine: A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having astrong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines. Cf.Methylamine.
dietic: Dietetic.
dietical: Dietetic. [R.] Ferrand.
dietine: A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank.
diffame: Evil name; bad reputation; defamation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
diffarreation: A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cakewas used. See Confarreation.
differ: To cause to be different or unlike; to set at variance. [R.]But something 'ts that differs thee and me. Cowley.
difference: An addition to a coat of arms to distinguish the bearings oftwo persons, which would otherwise be the same. See Augmentation, andMarks of cadency, under Cadency.
differentia: The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species;the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference.
differential: Of or pertaining to a differential, or to differentials.
differentially: In the way of differentiation.
differentiate: To obtain the differential, or differential coefficient, of;as, to differentiate an algebraic expression, or an equation.
differentiation: The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving itsdifferent, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.
differentiator: One who, or that which, differentiates.
differently: In a different manner; variously.
differingly: In a differing or different manner. Boyle.
difficile: Difficult; hard to manage; stubborn. [Obs.] --Dif"fi*cile*ness, n. [Obs.] Bacon.
difficilitate: To make difficult. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
difficult: To render difficult; to impede; to perplex. [R.] Sir W. Temple.
difficultate: To render difficult; to difficilitate. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
difficultly: With difficulty. Cowper.
difficultness: Difficulty. [R.] Golding.
diffide: To be distrustful. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
diffidency: See Diffidence. [Obs.]
diffidently: In a diffident manner.To stand diffidently against each other with their thoughts in battlearray. Hobbes.
diffind: To split. [Obs.] Bailey.
diffine: To define. [Obs.] Chaucer.
diffinitive: Definitive; determinate; final. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
diffission: Act of cleaving or splitting. [R.] Bailey.
difflation: A blowing apart or away. [Obs.] Bailey.
diffluent: Flowing apart or off; dissolving; not fixed. [R.] Bailey.
difform: Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence,unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do notcorrespond in size or proportion; difform leaves.The unequal refractions of difform rays. Sir I. Newton.
difformity: Irregularity of form; diversity of form; want of uniformity.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
diffract: To break or separate into parts; to deflect, or decompose bydeflection, a
diffraction: The deflection and decomposition of light in passing by theedges of opaque bodies or through narrow slits, causing theappearance of parallel bands or fringes of prismatic colors, as bythe action of a grating of fine lines or bars.Remarked by Grimaldi (1665), and referred by him to a property oflight which he called diffraction. Whewell.Diffraction grating. (Optics) See under Grating.-- Diffraction spectrum. (Optics) See under Spectrum.
diffractive: That produces diffraction.
diffusate: Material which, in the process of catalysis, has diffused orpassed through the separating membrane.
diffuse: To pour out and cause to spread, as a fluid; to cause to flowon all sides; to send out, or extend, in all directions; to spread;to circulate; to disseminate; to scatter; as to diffuse information.Thence diffuse His good to worlds and ages infinite. Milton.We find this knowledge diffused among all civilized nations. Whewell.
diffused: Spread abroad; dispersed; loose; flowing; diffuse.It grew to be a widely diffused opinion. Hawthorne.-- Dif*fus"ed*ly, adv.-- Dif*fus"ed*ness, n.
diffusely: In a diffuse manner.
diffuseness: The quality of being diffuse; especially, in writing, the useof a great or excessive number of word to express the meaning;copiousness; verbosity; prolixity.
diffuser: One who, or that which, diffuses.
diffusibility: The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured orspread out.
diffusible: Capable of passing through animal membranes by osmosis.
diffusibleness: Diffusibility.
diffusion: The act of passing by osmosis through animal membranes, as inthe distribution of poisons, gases, etc., through the body. Unlikeabsorption, diffusion may go on after death, that is, after the bloodceases to circulate.
diffusive: Having the quality of diffusing; capable of spreading every wayby flowing; spreading widely; widely reaching; copious; diffuse. "Aplentiful and diffusive perfume." Hare.
diffusively: In a diffusive manner.
diffusiveness: The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse;extensiveness; expansion; dispersion. Especially of style:Diffuseness; want of conciseness; prolixity.The fault that I find with a modern legend, it its diffusiveness.Addison.
diffusivity: Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to becomeequalized by spreading through a conducting medium.
dig: To take ore from its bed, in distinction from makingexcavations in search of ore.
digamist: One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist. Hammond.
digamma: A letter (
digamous: Pertaining to a second marriage, that is, one after the deathof the first wife or the first husband.
digamy: Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy. [R.]
digenea: A division of Trematoda in which alternate generations occur,the immediate young not resembling their parents.
digenesis: The faculty of multiplying in two ways; -- by ova fecundated byspermatic fluid, and asexually, as by buds. See Parthenogenesis.
digenous: Sexually reproductive. Digenous reproduction. (Biol.) Same asDigenesis.
digerent: Digesting. [Obs.] Bailey.
digest: To separate (the food) in its passage through the alimentarycanal into the nutritive and nonnutritive elements; to prepare, bythe action of the digestive juices, for conversion into blood; toconvert into chyme.
digestedly: In a digested or well-arranged manner; methodically.
digestibility: The quality of being digestible.
digestible: Capable of being digested.
digestibleness: The quality of being digestible; digestibility.
digestion: The conversion of food, in the stomach and intestines, intosoluble and diffusible products, capable of being absorbed by theblood.
digestive: Pertaining to digestion; having the power to cause or promotedigestion; as, the digestive ferments.Digestive cheese and fruit there sure will be. B. Jonson.Digestive apparatus, the organs of food digestion, esp. thealimentary canal and glands connected with it.-- Digestive salt, the chloride of potassium.
digestor: See Digester.
digesture: Digestion. [Obs.] Harvey.
diggable: Capable of being dug.
digger: One who, or that which, digs. Digger wasp (Zoöl.), any one ofthe fossorial Hymenoptera.
diggers: A degraded tribe of California Indians; -- so called from theirpractice of digging roots for food.
digging: Places where ore is dug; especially, certain localities inCalifornia, Australia, and elsewhere, at which gold is obtained.[Recent]
dighter: One who dights. [Obs.]
digit: One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger ortoe.The ruminants have the "cloven foot," i. e., two hoofed digits oneach foot. Owen.
digital: Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with thefingers; as, digital compression; digital examination.
digitalis: A genus of plants including the foxglove.
digitate: To point out as with the finger. [R.] Robinson (Eudoxa).
digitation: A division into fingers or fingerlike processes; also, afingerlike process.
digitiform: Formed like a finger or fingers; finger-shaped; as, adigitiform root.
digitigrade: Walking on the toes; -- distinguished from plantigrade.
digitipartite: Parted like the fingers.
digitize: To finger; as, to digitize a pen. [R.] Sir T. Browne. computersto convert (information, a signal, an image) into a form expressiblein binary notation
digitorium: A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising thefingers; -- called also dumb piano.
digitule: A little finger or toe, or something resembling one.
digladiate: To fight like gladiators; to contend fiercely; to disputeviolently. [Obs.]Digladiating like Æschines and Demosthenes. Hales.
digladiation: Act of digladiating. [Obs.] "Sore digladiations and contest."Evelyn.
diglottism: Bilingualism. [R.] Earle.
diglyph: A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only twochannels or grooves sunk in it.
dignation: The act of thinking worthy; honor. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
dignification: The act of dignifying; exaltation.
dignified: Marked with dignity; stately; as, a dignified judge.
dignify: To invest with dignity or honor; to make illustrious; to givedistinction to; to exalt in rank; to honor.Your worth will dignity our feast. B. Jonson.
dignitary: One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignityor honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above thatof a parochial priest or clergyman.
dignotion: Distinguishing mark; diagnostic. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
digonous: Having two angles. Smart.
digram: A digraph.
digraph: Two signs or characters combined to express a singlearticulated sound; as ea in head, or th in bath.
digraphic: Of or pertaining to a digraph. H. Sweet.
digress: Digression. [Obs.] Fuller.
digression: The elongation, or angular distance from the sun; -- saidchiefly of the inferior planets. [R.]
digressional: Pertaining to, or having the character of, a digression;departing from the main purpose or subject. T. Warton.
digressive: Departing from the main subject; partaking of the nature ofdigression. Johnson.
digressively: By way of digression.
digue: A bank; a dike. [Obs.] Sir W. Temple.
digynia: A Linnæan order of plants having two styles.
dihedral: Having two plane faces; as, the dihedral summit of a crystal.Dihedral angle, the angular space contained between planes whichintersect. It is measured by the angle made by any two lines at rightangles to the two planes.
dihedron: A figure with two sides or surfaces. Buchanan.
diiamb: A diiambus.
diiambus: A double iambus; a foot consisting of two iambuses (
diiodide: A compound of a binary type containing two atoms of iodine; --called also biniodide.
diisatogen: A red crystalline nitrogenous substance or artificialproduction, which by reduction passes directly to indigo.
dijudicant: One who dijudicates. [R.] Wood.
dijudicate: To make a judicial decision; to decide; to determine. [R.]Hales.
dijudication: The act of dijudicating; judgment. [R.] Cockeram.
dika: A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the IrvingiaBarteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- calledalso dika bread.
dike: A wall-like mass of mineral matter, usually an intrusion ofigneous rocks, filling up rents or fissures in the original strata.
dilacerate: To rend asunder; to tear to pieces. Sir T. Browne.
dilaceration: The act of rending asunder. Arbuthnot.
dilaniate: To rend in pieces; to tear. [R.] Howell.
dilaniation: A rending or tearing in pieces; dilaceration. [R.]
dilapidate: To get out of repair; to fall into partial ruin; to becomedecayed; as, the church was suffered to dilapidate. Johnson.
dilapidated: Decayed; fallen into partial ruin; injured by bad usage orneglect.A deserted and dilapidated buildings. Cooper.
dilapidation: The pulling down of a building, or suffering it to fall or bein a state of decay. Burrill.
dilapidator: One who causes dilapidation. Strype.
dilatability: The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; --opposed to contractibility. Ray.
dilatable: Capable of expansion; that may be dilated; -- opposed tocontractible; as, the lungs are dilatable by the force of air; air isdilatable by heat.
dilatation: A dilation or enlargement of a canal or other organ.
dilatator: A muscle which dilates any part; a dilator.
dilate: Extensive; expanded. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
dilated: Widening into a lamina or into lateral winglike appendages.
dilatedly: In a dilated manner. Feltham.
dilater: One who, or that which, dilates, expands, o r enlarges.
dilation: Delay. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
dilative: Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive.Coleridge.
dilatometer: An instrument for measuring the dilatation or expansion of asubstance, especially of a fluid.
dilator: A muscle that dilates any part.
dilatorily: With delay; tardily.
dilatoriness: The quality of being dilatory; lateness; slowness; tardiness;sluggishness.
dildo: A burden in popular songs. [Obs.]Delicate burthens of dildos and fadings. Shak.
dilection: Love; choice. [Obs.] T. Martin.
dilemma: An argument which presents an antagonist with two or morealternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whicheveralternative he chooses.
dilettant: Of or pertaining to dilettanteism; amateur; as, dilettantspeculation. Carlyle.
dilettante: An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur;especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge,desultorily, or for amusement only.
dilettanteish: Somewhat like a dilettante.
dilettanteism: The state or quality of being a dilettante; the desultorypursuit of art, science, or literature.
dilettantish: Dilettanteish.
dilettantism: Same as Dilettanteism. F. Harrison.
diligence: Process by which persons, lands, or effects are seized fordebt; process for enforcing the attendance of witnesses or theproduction of writings. To do one's diligence, give diligence, usediligence, to exert one's self; to make interested and earnestendeavor.And each of them doth all his diligence To do unto the festéreverence. Chaucer.
diligency: Diligence; care; persevering endeavor. [Obs.] Milton.
diligently: In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not negligently; withindustry or assiduity.Ye diligently keep commandments of the Lord your God. Deut. vi. 17.
dill: An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which aremoderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used asa soothing medicine for children; -- called also dill-seed. Dr.Prior.
dilling: A darling; a favorite. [Obs.]Whilst the birds billing, Each one with his dilling. Drayton.
dilluing: A process of sorting ore by washing in a hand sieve. [Writtenalso deluing.]
dilly: A kind of stagecoach. "The Derby dilly." J. H. Frere.
dilly-dally: To loiter or trifle; to waste time.
dilogical: Ambiguous; of double meaning. [Obs.] T. Adams.
dilogy: An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used anequivocal sense. [R.]
dilucid: Clear; lucid. [Obs.] Bacon.-- Di*lu"cid*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Di`lu*cid"i*ty, n. [Obs.]
dilucidate: To elucidate. [Obs.] Boyle.
dilucidation: The act of making clear. [Obs.] Boyle.
diluent: Diluting; making thinner or weaker by admixture, esp. of water.Arbuthnot.
dilute: To become attenuated, thin, or weak; as, it dilutes easily.
diluted: Reduced in strength; thin; weak.-- Di*lut"ed*ly, adv.
diluteness: The quality or state of being dilute. Bp. Wilkins.
diluter: One who, or that which, dilutes or makes thin, more liquid, orweaker.
dilution: The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted. Arbuthnot.
diluvial: Effected or produced by a flood or deluge of water; -- said ofcoarse and imperfectly stratified deposits along ancient or existingwater courses. Similar unstratified deposits were formed by theagency of ice. The time of deposition has been called the Diluvianepoch.
diluvialist: One who explains geological phenomena by the Noachian deluge.Lyell.
diluvian: Of or pertaining to a deluge, esp. to the Noachian deluge;diluvial; as, of diluvian origin. Buckland.
diluviate: To run as a flood. [Obs.] Sir E. Sandys.
diluvium: A deposit of superficial loam, sand, gravel, stones, etc.,caused by former action of flowing waters, or the melting of glacialice.
dim: To grow dim. J. C. Shairp.
dim-sighted: Having dim sight; lacking perception.-- Dim"-sight`ed*ness, n.
dimble: A bower; a dingle. [Obs.] Drayton.
dime: A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents;the tenth of a dollar. Dime novel, a novel, commonly sensational andtrashy, which is sold for a dime, or ten cents.
dimension: The degree of manifoldness of a quantity; as, time is quantityhaving one dimension; volume has three dimensions, relative toextension.
dimensional: Pertaining to dimension.
dimensioned: Having dimensions. [R.]
dimensionless: Without dimensions; having no appreciable or noteworthy extent.Milton.
dimensity: Dimension. [R.] Howell.
dimensive: Without dimensions; marking dimensions or the limits.Who can draw the soul's dimensive lines Sir J. Davies.
dimeran: One of the Dimera.
dimerous: Composed of, or having, two parts of each kind.
dimeter: Having two poetical measures or meters.-- n.
dimethyl: Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consistingof two methyl radicals. See Ethane.
dimetric: Same as Tetragonal. Dana.
dimication: A fight; contest. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
dimidiate: To represent the half of; to halve.
dimidiation: The act of dimidiating or halving; the state of beingdimidiate.
diminish: To make smaller by a half step; to make (an interval) less thanminor; as, a diminished seventh.
diminishable: Capable of being diminished or lessened.
diminisher: One who, or that which, diminishes anything. Clerke (1637).
diminishingly: In a manner to diminish.
diminishment: Diminution. [R.] Cheke.
diminuendo: In a gradually diminishing manner; with abatement of tone;decrescendo; -- expressed on the staff by Dim., or Dimin., or thesign.
diminuent: Lessening. Bp. Sanderson.
diminutal: Indicating or causing diminution. Earle.
diminute: Small; diminished; diminutive. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
diminutely: Diminutively. [Obs.]
diminution: Omission, inaccuracy, or defect in a record.
diminutival: Indicating diminution; diminutive. "Diminutival forms" [ofwords]. Earle.-- n.
diminutive: A derivative from a noun, denoting a small or a young object ofthe same kind with that denoted by the primitive; as, gosling,eaglet, lambkin.Babyisms and dear diminutives. Tennyson.
diminutively: In a diminutive manner.
diminutiveness: The quality of being diminutive; smallness; littleness;minuteness.
dimish: See Dimmish.
dimission: Leave to depart; a dismissing. [Obs.] Barrow.
dimissory: Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; grantingleave to depart. Letters dimissory (Eccl.), letters given by a bishopdismissing a person who is removing into another diocese, andrecommending him for reception there. Hook.
dimit: To dismiss, let go, or release. [Obs.]
dimity: A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings,and formerly used for women's under-garments. It is of many patterns,both plain and twilled, and occasionally is printed in colors.
dimly: In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; withimperfect sight.
dimorph: Either one of the two forms of a dimorphous substance; as,calcite and aragonite are dimorphs.
dimorphic: Having the property of dimorphism; dimorphous.
dimorphism: Difference of form between members of the same species, as whena plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in thepartridge berry), or when there are two forms of one or both sexes ofthe same species of butterfly.Dimorphism is the condition of the appearance of the same speciesunder two dissimilar forms. Darwin.
dimorphous: Characterized by dimorphism; occurring under two distinctforms, not dependent on sex; dimorphic.
dimple: To form dimples; to sink into depressions or littleinequalities.And smiling eddies dimpled on the main. Dryden.
dimplement: The state of being dimpled, or marked with gentle depressions.[R.]The ground's most gentle dimplement. Mrs. Browning.
dimply: Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimplypool. Thomson.
dimyarian: Like or pertaining to the Dimya.-- n.
dimyary: Same as Dimyarian.
din: Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling orclanging sound; clamor; roar.Think you a little din can daunt mine ears Shak.He knew the battle's din afar. Sir W. Scott.The dust and din and steam of town. Tennyson.
dinaphthyl: A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C20H14, obtained fromnaphthylene, and consisting of a doubled naphthylene radical.
dinarchy: See Diarchy.
dine: To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner.Now can I break my fast, dine, sup, and sleep. Shak.To dine with Duke Humphrey, to go without dinner; -- a phrase commonin Elizabethan literature, said to be from the practice of the poorgentry, who beguiled the dinner hour by a promenade near the tomb ofHumphrey, Duke of Gloucester, in Old Saint Paul's.
diner: One who dines.
diner-out: One who often takes his dinner away from home, or in company.A brilliant diner-out, though but a curate. Byron.
dinetical: Revolving on an axis. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ding: A thump or stroke, especially of a bell.
dingdong: An attachment to a clock by which the quarter hours are struckupon bells of different tones.
dingdong theory: The theory which maintains that the primitive elements oflanguage are reflex expressions induced by sensory impressions; thatis, as stated by Max Müller, the creative faculty gave to eachgeneral conception as it thrilled for the first time through thebrain a phonetic expression; -- jocosely so called from the analogyof the sound of a bell induced by the stroke of the clapper.
dingily: In a dingy manner.
dinginess: Quality of being dingy; a dusky hue.
dingle: A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and emboweredvalley.
dingle-dangle: In a dangling manner.
dingo: A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introducedat a very early period. It has a wolflike face, bushy tail, and areddish brown color.
dingthrift: A spendthrift. [Obs.]Wilt thou, therefore, a drunkard be, A dingthrift and a knave Drant.
dingy: Soiled; sullied; of a dark or dusky color; dark brown; dirty."Scraps of dingy paper." Macaulay.
dinichthys: A genus of large extinct Devonian ganoid fishes. In some partsof Ohio remains of the Dinichthys are abundant, indicating animalstwenty feet in length.
dining: from Dine, a.
dink: Trim; neat. [Scot.] Burns.-- Dink"ly, adv.
dinmont: A wether sheep between one and two years old. [Scot.]
dinnerless: Having no dinner. Fuller.
dinnerly: Of or pertaining to dinner. [R.]The dinnerly officer. Copley.
dinoceras: A genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- calledalso Uintatherium. See Illustration in Appendix.
dinornis: A genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, whichformerly inhabited New Zealand. See Moa. [Written also Deinornis.]
dinosauria: An order of extinct mesozoic reptiles, mostly of large size(whence the name). Notwithstanding their size, they present birdlikecharacters in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind limbs. Somewalked on their three-toed hind feet, thus producing the large "birdtracks," so-called, of mesozoic sandstones; others were five-toed andquadrupedal. See Illust. of Compsognathus, also Illustration ofDinosaur in Appendix.
dinoxide: Same as Dioxide.
dinsome: Full of din. [Scot.] Burns.
dint: To make a mark or cavity on or in, by a blow or by pressure; todent. Donne. Tennyson.
dinumeration: Enumeration. [Obs.] Bullokar.
diocesan: Of or pertaining to a diocese; as, diocesan missions.
diocese: The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the districtin which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority.[Frequently, but improperly, spelt diocess.]
diocesener: One who belongs to a diocese. [Obs.] Bacon.
diodon: A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth ofeach jaw united into a single beaklike plate. They are able toinflate the body by taking in air or water, and, hence, are calledglobefishes, swellfishes, etc. fishes, and sea hedgehogs.
diodont: Like or pertaining to the genus Diodon.-- n.
dioecia: A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens and pistils ondifferent plants.
dioeciously: In a dioecious manner. Dioeciously hermaphrodite (Bot.), havingflowers structurally perfect, but practically dioecious, -- those onone plant producing no pollen, and those on another no ovules.
dioeciousness: The state or quality of being dioecious.
dioecism: The condition of being dioecious.
diogenes: A Greek Cynic philosopher (412-323 B. C.) who lived much inAthens and was distinguished for contempt of the common aims andconditions of life, and for sharp, caustic sayings. Diogenes' crab(Zoöl.), a species of terrestrial hermit crabs (Cenobita Diogenes),abundant in the West Indies and often destructive to crops.-- Diogenes' tub, the tub which the philosopher Diogenes is said tohave carried about with him as his house, in which he lived.
dioicous: See Dioecious.
diomedea: A genus of large sea birds, including the albatross. SeeAlbatross.
dionaea: An insectivorous plant. See Venus's flytrap.
dionysia: Any of the festivals held in honor of the Olympian godDionysus. They correspond to the Roman Bacchanalia; the greaterDionysia were held at Athens in March or April, and were celebratedwith elaborate performances of both tragedies and comedies.
dionysiac: Of or pertaining to Dionysus or to the Dionysia; Bacchic; as, aDionysiac festival; the Dionysiac theater at Athens.
dionysian: Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, theDionysian, or Christian, era. Dionysian period, a period of 532years, depending on the cycle of the sun, or 28 years, and the cycleof the moon, or 19 years; -- sometimes called the Greek paschalcycle, or Victorian period.
diophantine: Originated or taught by Diophantus, the Greek writer onalgebra. Diophantine analysis (Alg.), that branch of indeterminateanalysis which has for its object the discovery of rational valuesthat satisfy given equations containing squares or cubes; as, forexample, to find values of x and y which make x2 + y2 an exactsquare.
diopside: A crystallized variety of pyroxene, of a clear, grayish greencolor; mussite.
dioptase: A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring in emerald-greencrystals.
dioptre: A unit employed by oculists in numbering glasses according tothe metric system; a refractive power equal to that of a glass whoseprincipal focal distance is one meter.
dioptric: Of or pertaining to the dioptre, or to the metric system ofnumbering glasses.-- n.
dioptrics: The science of the refraction of light; that part ofgeometrical optics which treats of the laws of the refraction oflight in passing from one medium into another, or through differentmediums, as air, water, or glass, and esp. through different lenses;-- distinguished from catoptrics, which refers to reflected light.
dioptry: A dioptre.
dioramic: Pertaining to a diorama.
diorism: Definition; logical direction. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
dioristic: Distinguishing; distinctive; defining. [R.] --Di`o*ris"tic*al*ly, adv. [R.] Dr. H. More.
diorite: An igneous, crystalline in structure, consisting essentially ofa triclinic feldspar and hornblende. It includes part of what wascalled greenstone.
dioritic: Containing diorite.
diorthotic: Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something;corrective.
dioscorea: A genus of plants. See Yam.
diota: A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears.
dioxindol: A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance obtained by thereduction of isatin. It is a member of the indol series; -- hence itsname.
dipaschal: Including two passovers. Carpenter.
dipchick: See Dabchick.
dipetalous: Having two petals; two-petaled.
diphenyl: A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leadingbenzene through a heated iron tube. It consists of two benzene orphenyl radicals united.
diphtheria: A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages,and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane,produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation. Cf.Group.
diphthong: To form or pronounce as a diphthong; diphthongize. [R.]
diphthongal: Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of adiphthong.-- Diph*thon"gal*ly, adv.
diphthongalize: To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong.
diphthongation: See Diphthongization.
diphthongic: Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal. H. Sweet.
diphthongization: The act of changing into a diphthong. H. Sweet.
diphthongize: To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to asimple vowel. "The diphthongized long vowels." H. Sweet.
diphycercal: Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by thenotochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal. SeeProtocercal.
diphygenic: Having two modes of embryonic development.
diphyllous: Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc.
diphyodont: Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent),one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodontdentition; -- opposed to monophyodont.-- n.
diphyozooid: One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora.
diplanar: Of or pertaining to two planes.
dipleidoscope: An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon. Itconsists of two mirrors and a plane glass disposed in the form of aprism, so that, by the reflections of the sun's rays from theirsurfaces, two images are presented to the eye, moving in oppositedirections, and coinciding at the instant the sun's center is on themeridian.
diplex: Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same directionat the same time. Diplex and contraplex are the two varieties ofduplex.
diploblastic: Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinallayers.
diplocardiac: Having the heart completely divided or double, one sidesystemic, the other pulmonary.
diplococcus: A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binarymanner. See Micrococcus.
diploe: The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the platesof the skull.
diploetic: Diploic.
diplogenic: Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing twosubstances. Wright.
diplograph: An instrument used for double writing, as one for producingembossed writing for the blind and ordinary writing at the same time.-- Dip`lo*graph"ic*al (#), a. -- Dip*log"ra*phy (#), n.
diploic: Of or pertaining to the diploë.
diploid: A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces. Itis a hemihedral form of the hexoctahedron.
diploma: A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring someprivilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degreeconferred by a literary society or educational institution.
diplomacy: A diplomatist.
diplomate: To invest with a title o [R.] Wood.
diplomatial: Diplomatic. [R.]
diplomatic: A minister, official agent, or envoy to a foreign court; adiplomatist.
diplomatically: According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of adiplomatist; artfully.
diplomatics: The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancientwritings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.
diplomatism: Diplomacy. [R.]
diplomatist: A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat.In ability, Avaux had no superior among the numerous able diplomaticswhom his country then possessed. Macaulay.
diplopod: One of the Diplopoda.
diplopoda: An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment;the Chilognatha.
diplostemonous: Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium. R.Brown.
diplostemony: The condition of being diplostemonous.
dipneumona: A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs. [Writtenalso Dipneumones.]
dipnoi: A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodusand Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to theAmphibia. The air bladder acts as a lung, and the nostrils openinside the mouth. See Ceratodus, and Illustration in Appendix.
dipody: Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.Hadley.Trochaic, iambic, and anapestic verses . . . are measured bydipodies. W. W. Goodwin.
dipolar: Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.
diprismatic: Doubly prismatic.
dipropargyl: A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificiallyfrom certain allyl derivatives. Though isomeric with benzine, it isvery different in its chemical relations. Called also dipropinyl.
dipropyl: One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting oftwo propyl radicals. See Hexane.
diprotodon: An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as largeas the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large frontteeth. See Illustration in Appendix.
dipsas: A genus of harmless colubrine snakes.
dipsetic: Tending to produce thirst. Wright.
dipsomania: A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink,esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute andchronic alcoholism.
dipsomaniac: One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.
dipsomaniacal: Of or pertaining to dipsomania.
dipsosis: Excessive thirst produced by disease.
diptera: An extensive order of insects having only two functional wingsand two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have asuctorial proboscis, often including two pairs of sharp organs(mandibles and maxillæ) with which they pierce the skin of animals.They undergo a complete metamorphosis, their larvæ (called maggots)being usually without feet.
dipteral: Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.
dipteran: An insect of the order Diptera.
dipterocarpus: A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species ofwhich produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil. The fruit hastwo long wings.
dipterous: Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the orderDiptera.
dipterygian: Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.
diptote: A noun which has only two cases. Andrews.
dipyre: A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the doubleeffect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering itphosphorescent.
dipyrenous: Containing two stones or nutlets.
dipyridine: A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorlessoil by the action of sodium on pyridine.
dipyridyl: A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by thereduction of pyridine.
diradiation: The emission and diffusion of rays of light.
direct: In the direction of the general planetary motion, or from westto east; in the order of the signs; not retrograde; -- said of themotion of a celestial body. Direct action. (Mach.) See Direct-acting.-- Direct discourse (Gram.), the language of any one quoted withoutchange in its form; as, he said "I can not come;" -- correlative toindirect discourse, in which there is change of form; as, he saidthat he could not come. They are often called respectively by theirLatin names, oratio directa, and oratio obliqua.-- Direct evidence (Law), evidence which is positive or notinferential; -- opposed to circumstantial, or indirect, evidence.-- This distinction, however, is merely formal, since there is nodirect evidence that is not circumstantial, or dependent oncircumstances for its credibility. Wharton.-- Direct examination (Law), the first examination of a witness inthe orderly course, upon the merits. Abbott.-- Direct fire (Mil.), fire, the direction of which is perpendicularto the line of troops or to the parapet aimed at.-- Direct process (Metal.), one which yields metal in workingcondition by a single process from the ore. Knight.-- Direct tax, a tax assessed directly on lands, etc., and polls,distinguished from taxes on merchandise, or customs, and from excise.
direct action: See Syndicalism, below.
direct nomination: The nomination or designation of candidates for public officeby direct popular vote rather than through the action of a conventionor body of elected nominating representatives or delegates. The termis applied both to the nomination of candidates without anynominating convention, and, loosely, to the nomination effected, asin the case of candidates for president or senator of the UnitedStates, by the election of nominating representatives pledged orinstructed to vote for certain candidates dssignated by popular vote.
direct primary: A primary by which direct nominations of candidates for officeare made.
direct-acting: Acting directly, as one part upon another, without theintervention of other working parts. Direct-acting steam engine, onein which motion is transmitted to the crank without the interventionof a beam or lever; -- also called direct-action steam engine.-- Direct-acting steam pump, one in which the steam piston rod isdirectly connected with the pump rod; -- also called direct-actionsteam pump.
direct-coupled: Coupled without intermediate connections, as an engine and adynamo.
directer: One who directs; a director. Directer plane (Geom.), the planeto which all right-lined elements in a warped surface are parallel.
direction: The pointing of a piece with reference to an imaginary verticalaxis; -- distinguished from elevation. The direction is given whenthe plane of sight passes through the object. Wilhelm.
directness: The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness;immediateness.
directoire style: A style of dress prevalent at the time of the French Directory,characterized by great extravagance of design and imitating the Greekand Roman costumes.
director: A part of a machine or instrument which directs its motion oraction.
directorate: The office of director; also, a body of directors takenjointly.
directorship: The condition or office of a director; directorate.
directory: Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial.
directress: A woman who directs. Bp. Hurd.
direful: Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direfulfiend; a direful day.-- Dire"ful*ly, adv.-- Dire"ful*ness, n.
direly: In a dire manner. Drayton.
dirempt: Divided; separated. [Obs.] Stow.
diremption: A tearing apart; violent separation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
direness: Terribleness; horror; woefulness. Shak.
direption: The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away. [R.]Speed.
direptitious: Characterized by direption. [R.] Encyc. Dict.
direptitiously: With plundering violence; by violent injustice. [R.] Strype.
dirge: A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeralrites; a funeral hymn.The raven croaked, and hollow shrieks of owls Sung dirges at herfuneral. Ford.
dirgeful: Funereal; moaning.Soothed sadly by the dirgeful wind. Coleridge.
dirige: A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being thefirst antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the firstword; a dirge.Evensongs and placebo and dirige. Wyclif.Resort, I pray you, unto my sepulture To sing my dirige with greatdevotion. Lamentation of Mary Magdalene.
dirigent: Directing. Baxter.
dirigible: Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon.
diriment: Absolute. Diriment impediment (R. C. Ch.), an impediment thatnullifies marriage.
dirk: A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by theScottish Highlander. Dirk knife, a clasp knife having a large,dirklike blade.
dirkness: Darkness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dirl: To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
dirt: To make foul of filthy; to dirty. Swift.
dirtily: In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly.
dirtiness: The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness;baseness; sordidness.
diruption: Disruption.
dis: The god Pluto. Shak.
dis-: .
disable: Lacking ability; unable. [Obs.] "Our disable and unactiveforce." Daniel.
disablement: Deprivation of ability; incapacity. Bacon.
disabuse: To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage fromfallacy or deception; to set right.To undeceive and disabuse the people. South.If men are now sufficiently enlightened to disabuse themselves orartifice, hypocrisy, and superstition, they will consider this eventas an era in their history. J. Adams.
disaccommodate: To put to inconvenience; to incommode. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
disaccommodation: A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
disaccord: To refuse to assent. [Obs.] Spenser.
disaccordant: Not accordant. Fabyan.
disaccustom: To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom.Johnson.
disacidify: To free from acid.
disacknowledge: To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown. [Obs.] South.
disacquaint: To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar. [Obs.]While my sick heart With dismal smart Is disacquainted never.Herrick.
disacquaintance: Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance.[Obs.] South.
disacryl: A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymericmodification of acrolein.
disadorn: To deprive of ornaments. Congreve.
disadvance: To draw back, or cause to draw back. [Obs.] Spenser.
disadvantage: To injure the interest of; to be detrimental to.
disadvantageable: Injurious; disadvantageous. [Obs.] Bacon.
disadvantageous: Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success orprosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous;as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack ordefense.Even in the disadvantageous position in which he had been placed, hegave clear indications of future excellence. Prescott.-- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ly, adv.-- Dis*ad`van*ta"geous*ness, n.
disadventure: Misfortune; mishap. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
disadventurous: Unprosperous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser.
disadvise: To advise against; to dissuade from. [R.] Boyle.
disaffected: Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal. J. H. Newman.-- Dis`af*fect"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`af*fect"ed*ness, n.
disaffectionate: Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected. [R.]Blount.
disaffirm: To refuse to confirm; to annul, as a judicial decision, by acontrary judgment of a superior tribunal.
disaffirmance: Overthrow or annulment by the decision of a superior tribunal;as, disaffirmance of judgment.
disaffirmation: The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.
disafforest: To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state ofcommon ground; to exempt from forest laws.By charter 9 Henry III. many forests were disafforested. Blackstone.
disaggregate: To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into componentparts, as an aggregate mass.
disaggregation: The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts.
disagreeableness: The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness.
disagreeably: In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively.
disagreeance: Disagreement. [Obs.]
disagreer: One who disagrees. Hammond.
disalliege: To alienate from allegiance. [Obs. & R.] Milton.
disallow: To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disownand reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge.To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, butchosen of God. 1 Pet. ii. 4.That the edicts of Cæsar we may at all times disallow, but thestatutes of God for no reason we may reject. Milton.
disallowable: Not allowable; not to be suffered. Raleigh.-- Dis`al*low"a*ble*ness, n.
disallowance: The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.
disally: To part, as an alliance; to sunder. [R.] "Disallied theirnuptials." Milton.
disanchor: To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor. [Obs.]Heywood.
disangelical: Not angelical. [R.] "Disangelical nature." Coventry.
disannex: To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of. State Trials(1608).
disannul: To annul completely; to render void or of no effect.For the Lord of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul Isaiahxiv. 27.
disannuller: One who disannuls.
disannulment: Complete annulment.
disanoint: To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.[Obs.] Milton.
disapparel: To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.Drink disapparels the soul. Junius (1635).
disappearance: The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal fromsight; vanishing. Addison.
disappearing: p. pr. & vb. n. of Disappear.
disappendency: A detachment or separation from a former connection. [R.]
disappendent: Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected.[R.]
disappreciate: To undervalue; not to esteem.-- Dis`ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n.
disapprobation: The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judgedwrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.We have ever expressed the most unqualified disapprobation of all thesteps. Burke.
disapprobatory: Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove.
disappropriate: Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritualcorporation.The appropriation may be severed, and the church becomedisappropriate, two ways. Blackstone.
disappropriation: The act of disappropriating.
disapproval: Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment.
disapprover: One who disapproves.
disapprovingly: In a disapproving manner.
disard: See Dizzard. [Obs.] Burton.
disarmament: The act of disarming.
disarmature: The act of divesting of armature. [R.]
disarmed: Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks. Cussans.
disarmer: One who disarms.
disarrange: To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; tothrow out of order.
disarrangement: The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged;confusion; disorder. Cowper.
disarrayment: Disorder. [R.] Feltham.
disarticulate: To sunder; to separate, as joints.-- Dis`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n.
disarticulator: One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons.
disassent: To dissent. [Obs.]
disassenter: One who disassents; a dissenter. [Obs.] State Trials (1634).
disassiduity: Want of as siduity or care. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.
disassimilate: To subject to disassimilation.
disassimilation: The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism,into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution ofenergy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation;downward metabolism.The breaking down of already existing chemical compounds into simplerones, sometimes called disassimilation. Martin.
disassimilative: Having power to disassimilate; of the nature ofdisassimilation.Disassimilative processes constitute a marked feature in the life ofanimal cells. McKendrick.
disassociate: To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; todissociate. Florio.
disasterly: Disastrously. [Obs.] Drayton.
disattire: To unrobe; to undress. Spenser.
disaugment: To diminish. [R.]
disauthorize: To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit. [R.] W.Wotton.
disavaunce: To retard; to repel; to do damage to. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disaventure: Misfortune. [Obs.] Spenser.
disaventurous: Misadventurous; unfortunate. [Obs.] Spenser.
disavouch: To disavow. [R.] Daniel.
disavowal: The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection anddenial.An earnest disavowal of fear often proceeds from fear. Richardson.
disavowance: Disavowal. [Obs.] South.
disavower: One who disavows.
disavowment: Disavowal. [R.] Wotton.
disband: To become separated, broken up, dissolved, or scattered;especially, to quit military service by breaking up organization.
disbandment: The act of disbanding.
disbar: To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (anattorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges assuch. Abbott.
disbark: To disembark. Pope.
disbarment: Act of disbarring.
disbase: To debase or degrade. [Obs.]Nor you nor your house were so much as spoken of before I disbasedmyself. B. Jonson.
disbecome: To misbecome. [Obs.] Massinger.
disbelief: The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one isfully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true;refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.Our belief or disbelief of a thing does not alter the nature of thething. Tillotson.No sadder proof can be given by a man of his own littleness thatdisbelief in great men. Carlyle.
disbelieve: Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not tobe true or actual.Assertions for which there is abundant positive evidence are oftendisbelieved, on account of what is called their improbability orimpossibility. J. S. Mill.
disbeliever: One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever.Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion. I.Watts.
disbench: To deprive (a bencher) of his privileges. Mozley & W.
disbend: To unbend. [Obs.] Stirling.
disbind: To unbind; to loosen. [Obs.] Mede.
disblame: To clear from blame. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disbodied: Disembodied. [R.]
disboscation: Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal ofa forest. Sir W. Scott.
disbowel: To disembowel. [R.] Spenser.
disbranch: To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off. Shak.
disbud: To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizingthe vital strength of a tree.
disburden: To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from somethingoppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve.He did it to disburden a conscience. Feltham.My mediations . . . will, I hope, be more calm, being thusdisburdened. Hammond.
disburgeon: To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud. [R.] Holland.
disburse: To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund ortreasury.The duty of collecting and disbursing his revenues. Macaulay.Disbursing officer, an officer in any department of the publicservice who is charged with the duty of paying out public money.
disburser: One who disburses money.
disburthen: To disburden; to relieve of a load. [Archaic]
disc: A flat round plate; (Biol.)
discage: To uncage. [R.] Tennyson.
discal: Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.
discalceate: To pull off shoes or sandals from. [Obs.] Cockeram.
discalceated: Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced.
discalceation: The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
discalced: Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced. "Thefoundation of houses of discalced friars." Cardinal Manning's St.Teresa.
discamp: To drive from a camp. [Obs.] Holland.
discandy: To melt; to dissolve; to thaw. [Obs.]
discant: See Descant, n.
discapacitate: To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate. [R.]
discard: To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside(a card or cards).
discardure: Rejection; dismissal. [R.] Hayter.
discarnate: Stripped of flesh. [Obs.] "Discarnate bones." Glanvill.
discase: To strip; to undress. Shak.
discede: To yield or give up; to depart. [Obs.]I dare not discede from my copy a tittle. Fuller.
discept: To debate; to discuss. [R.]One dissertates, he is candid; Two must discept, -- hasdistinguished. R. Browning.
disceptation: Controversy; disputation; discussion. [Archaic]Verbose janglings and endless disceptations. Strype.
disceptator: One who arbitrates or decides. [R.] Cowley.
discernance: Discernment. [Obs.]
discerner: One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, orjudges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.A great observer and discerner of men's natures. Clarendon.
discernible: Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as,a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideasis discernible by the understanding.The effect of the privations and sufferings . . . was discernible tothe last in his temper and deportment. Macaulay.
discernibleness: The quality of being discernible.
discernibly: In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly. Hammond.
discerning: Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted. Macaulay.
discerningly: In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely.Garth.
discerp: Capability or liableness to be discerped. [R.] Wollaston.
discerption: The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts. Bp.Hall.
discerptive: Tending to separate or disunite parts. Encys. Dict.
discession: Departure. [Obs.]
discharge: To throw off or deliver a load, charge, or burden; to unload;to emit or give vent to fluid or other contents; as, the water pipedischarges freely.The cloud, if it were oily or fatty, would not discharge. Bacon.
discharger: One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, inelectricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, orelectrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces;a discharging rod.
dischevele: Disheveled. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dischurch: To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church.Bp. Hall.
discide: To divide; to cleave in two. [Obs.] Spenser.
disciferous: Bearing disks.
disciform: Discoid.
discina: A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached byone valve, which is perforated by the peduncle.
discinct: Ungirded; loosely dressed. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
discind: To part; to divide. [Obs.] Boyle.
disciple: One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; alearner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in thetruth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as,the disciples of Plato; the disciples of our Savior. The disciples,or The twelve disciples, the twelve selected companions of Jesus; --also called the apostles.-- Disciples of Christ. See Christian, n., 3, and Campbellite.
discipleship: The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines andprecepts. Jer. Taylor.
discipless: A female disciple. [Obs.]
disciplinableness: The quality of being improvable by discipline. Sir M. Hale.
disciplinal: Relating to discipline. Latham.
disciplinant: A flagellant. See Flagellant.
disciplinarian: Pertaining to discipline. "Displinarian system." Milman.
disciplinary: Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective;belonging to a course of training.Those canons . . . were only disciplinary. Bp. Ferne.The evils of the . . . are disciplinary and remedial. Buckminster.
discipline: The enforcement of methods of correction against one guilty ofecclesiastical offenses; reformatory or penal action toward a churchmember.
discipliner: One who disciplines.
disclaim: To relinquish or deny having a claim; to disavow another'sclaim; to decline accepting, as an estate, interest, or office.Burrill.
disclaimer: A denial, disavowal, or renunciation, as of a title, claim,interest, estate, or trust; relinquishment or waiver of an interestor estate. Burrill.
disclamation: A disavowing or disowning. Bp. Hall.
disclame: To disclaim; to expel. [Obs.] "Money did love disclame."Spenser.
disclaunder: To injure one's good name; to slander. [Obs.]
discloak: To take off a cloak from; to uncloak. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
disclose: Disclosure. [Obs.] Shak. Young.
disclosed: Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and otherbirds not of prey. Cussans.
discloser: One who discloses.
discloud: To clear from clouds. [Archaic] Fuller.
disclout: To divest of a clout. [R.]
disclusion: A shutting off; exclusion. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
discoast: To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) ofanything; to be separated. [Obs.]As far as heaven and earth discoasted lie. G. Fletcher.To discoast from the plain and simple way of speech. Barrow.
discoblastic: Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, whichoccurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg.
discodactyl: One of the tree frogs.
discodactylia: A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, asthe tree frogs.
discodactylous: Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.
discoherent: Incoherent. [R.]
discoid: Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which havethe whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearlynautilus. Discoid flower (Bot.), a compound flower, consisting oftubular florets only, as a tansy, lacking the rays which are seen inthe daisy and sunflower.
discoidal: Disk-shaped; discoid.
discolith: One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body,with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion.One of them measures about
discolorate: To discolor. [R.] Fuller.
discomfit: Discomfited; overthrown. [Obs.]
discomfiture: The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited;rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.Every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very greatdiscomfiture. 1 Sam. xiv. 20.A hope destined to end . . . in discomfiture and disgrace. Macaulay.
discommendable: Deserving, disapprobation or blame.-- Dis`com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.
discommendation: Blame; censure; reproach. [R.] Ayliffe.
discommender: One who discommends; a dispraiser. Johnson.
discommission: To deprive of a commission or trust. [R.] Laud.
discommodate: To discommode. [Obs.] Howell.
discommode: To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble. [R.]
discommodious: Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious. [R.] Spenser.-- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ly, adv.-- Dis`com*mo"di*ous*ness, n.
discommodity: Disadvantage; inconvenience. Bacon.
discommon: To deprive of commonable quality, as lands, by inclosing orappropriating. Burrill.
discommunity: A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship.Community of embryonic structure reveals community of descent; butdissimilarity of embryonic development does not prove discommunity ofdescent. Darwin.
discompany: To free from company; to dissociate. [R.]It she be alone now, and discompanied. B. Jonson.
discomplexion: To change the complexion or hue of. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
discompliance: Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance.A compliance will discommend me to Mr. Coventry, and a discomplianceto my lord chancellor. Pepys.
discomposed: Disordered; disturbed; disquieted.-- Dis`com*pos"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`com*pos"ed*ness, n.
discomposition: Inconsistency; discordance. [Obs.] Donne.
discompt: To discount. See Discount. Hudibras.
disconcert: Want of concert; disagreement. Sir W. Temple.
disconcertion: The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted;discomposure; perturbation. [R.] State Trials (1794).
disconducive: Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous. [R.]
disconformable: Not conformable.Disconformable in religion from us. Stow (1603).
disconformity: Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency;disagreement.Those . . . in some disconformity to ourselves. Milton.Disagreement and disconformity betwixt the speech and the conceptionof the mind. Hakewill.
discongruity: Incongruity; disagreement; unsuitableness. Sir M. Hale.
disconnect: To dissolve the union or connection of; to disunite; to sever;to separate; to disperse.The commonwealth itself would . . . be disconnected into the dust andpowder of individuality. Burke.This restriction disconnects bank paper and the precious metals.Walsh.
disconnection: The act of disconnecting, or state of being disconnected;separation; want of union.Nothing was therefore to be left in all the subordinate members butweakness, disconnection, and confusion. Burke.
disconsecrate: To deprive of consecration or sacredness. [R.]
disconsent: To differ; to disagree; to dissent. [Obs.] Milton.
disconsolacy: The state of being disconsolate. [Obs.] Barrow.
disconsolate: Disconsolateness. [Obs.] Barrow.
disconsolated: Disconsolate. [Obs.]A poor, disconsolated, drooping creature. Sterne.
disconsolation: Dejection; grief. [R.] Bp. Hall.
discontent: Not content; discontented; dissatisfied. Jer. Taylor.Passion seemed to be much discontent, but Patience was very quiet.Bunyan.
discontentation: Discontent. [Obs.] Ascham.
discontented: Dissatisfied; uneasy in mind; malcontent.And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt,and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him. 1Sam. xxii. 2.-- Dis`con*tent"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis`con*tent"ed*ness, n.
discontentful: Full of discontent. [R.]
discontentive: Relating or tending to discontent. [R.] "Pride is everdiscontentive." Feltham.
discontentment: The state of being discontented; uneasiness; inquietude. Bacon.
discontinuable: Admitting of being discontinued. [R.]
discontinuation: Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in aconnected series; discontinuance.Upon any discontinuation of parts, made either by bubbles or byshaking the glass, the whole mercury falls. Sir I. Newton.
discontinue: To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice orhabit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop;to leave off.Set up their conventicles again, which had been discontinued. Bp.Burnet.I have discontinued school Above a twelvemonth. Shak.Taught the Greek tongue, discontinued before in these parts the spaceof seven hundred years. Daniel.They modify and discriminate the voice, without appearing todiscontinue it. Holder.
discontinuee: One whose possession of an estate is broken off, ordiscontinued; one whose estate is subject to discontinuance.
discontinuer: One who discontinues, or breaks off or away from; an absentee.He was no gadder abroad, not discontinuer from his convent for a longtime. Fuller.
discontinuity: Want of continuity or cohesion; disunion of parts."Discontinuity of surface." Boyle.
discontinuor: One who deprives another of the possession of an estate bydiscontinuance. See Discontinuance, 2.
disconvenience: Unsuitableness; incongruity. [Obs.] Bacon.
disconvenient: Not convenient or congruous; unsuitable; ill-adapted. [Obs.]Bp. Reynolds.
discophora: A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of thelarge disklike species.-- Dis*coph"o*rous, a.
discord: Union of musical sounds which strikes the ear harshly ordisagreeably, owing to the incommensurability of the vibrations whichthey produce; want of musical concord or harmony; a chord demandingresolution into a concord.For a discord itself is but a harshness of divers sounds mBacon.Apple of discord. See under Apple.
discordable: That may produce discord; disagreeing; discordant. [R.]Halliwell.
discordant: Dissonant; not in harmony or musical concord; harsh; jarring;as, discordant notes or sounds.For still their music seemed to start Discordant echoes in eachheart. Longfellow.
discordful: Full of discord; contentious. [Obs.] "His discordful dame."Spenser.
discordous: Full of discord. [Obs.]
discorporate: Deprived of the privileges or form of a body corporate. [Obs.]Jas. II.
discorrespondent: Incongruous. W. Montagu.
discost: Same as Discoast. [Obs.]
discounsel: To dissuade. [Obs.] Spenser.
discount: To lend, or make a practice of lending, money, abating thediscount; as, the discount for sixty or ninety days.
discountable: Capable of being, or suitable to be, discounted; as, certainforms are necessary to render notes discountable at a bank.
discountenance: Unfavorable aspect; unfriendly regard; cold treatment;disapprobation; whatever tends to check or discourage.He thought a little discountenance on those persons would suppressthat spirit. Clarendon.
discountenancer: One who discountenances; one who disfavors. Bacon.
discounter: One who discounts; a discount broker. Burke.
discourage: Lack of courage; cowardliness.
discourageable: Capable of being discouraged; easily disheartened. Bp. Hall.
discourager: One who discourages.The promoter of truth and the discourager of error. Sir G. C. Lewis.
discouraging: Causing or indicating discouragement.-- Dis*cour"a*ging*ly, adv.
discoure: To discover. [Obs.]That none might her discoure. Spenser.
discoursive: The state or quality of being discoursive or able to reason.[R.] Feltham.
discourteous: Uncivil; rude; wanting in courtesy or good manners;uncourteous.-- Dis*cour"te*ous*ly, adv.-- Dis*cour"te*ous*ness, n.
discourtesy: Rudeness of behavior or language; ill manners; manifestation ofdisrespect; incivility.Be calm in arguing; for fierceness makes Error a fault, and truthdiscourtesy. Herbert.
discourtship: Want of courtesy. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
discous: Disklike; discoid.
discovenant: To dissolve covenant with.
discover: To discover or show one's self. [Obs.]This done, they discover. DeckeNor was this the first time that they discovered to be followers ofthis world. Milton.
discoverability: The quality of being discoverable. [R.] Carlyle.
discoverable: Capable of being discovered, found out, or perceived; as, manyminute animals are discoverable only by the help of the microscope;truths discoverable by human industry.
discoverment: Discovery. [Obs.]
discovert: Not covert; not within the bonds of matrimony; unmarried; --applied either to a woman who has never married or to a widow.
discoverture: A state of being released from coverture; freedom of a womanfrom the coverture of a husband.
discovery day: = Columbus Day, above.
discradle: To take from a cradle. [R.]This airy apparition first discradled From Tournay into Portugal.Ford.
discreditable: Not creditable; injurious to reputation; disgraceful;disreputable.-- Dis*cred"it*a*bly, adv.
discreditor: One who discredits.
discreet: The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement;variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.There hath been ever a discrepance of vesture of youth and age, menand women. Sir T. Elyot.There is no real discrepancy between these two genealogies. G. S.Faber.
discrepant: Discordant; at variance; disagreeing; contrary; different.The Egyptians were . . . the most oddly discrepant from the rest intheir manner of worship. Cudworth.
discrete: Separate; not coalescent; -- said of things usually coalescent.Discrete movement. See Concrete movement of the voice, underConcrete, a.-- Discrete proportion, proportion where the ratio of the means isdifferent from that of either couplet; as, 3:6::8:16, 3 bearing thesame proportion to 6 as 8 does to 16. But 3 is not to 6 as 6 to 8. Itis thus opposed to continued or continual proportion; as, 3:6::12:24.-- Discrete quantity, that which must be divided into units, asnumber, and is opposed to continued quantity, as duration, orextension.
discretely: Separately; disjunctively.
discretion: Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion orjudgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.
discretive: Marking distinction or separation; disjunctive. Discretiveproposition (Logic & Gram.), one that expresses distinction,opposition, or variety, by means of discretive particles, as but,though, yet, etc.; as, travelers change their climate, but not theirtemper.
discretively: In a discretive manner.
discriminable: Capable of being discriminated. [Obs.] Bailey.
discriminal: In palmistry, applied to the line which marks the separationbetween the hand and the arm.
discriminant: The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenousfunction of n variables. See Eliminant.
discriminate: Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens.Bacon.
discriminately: In a discriminating manner; distinctly.
discriminateness: The state of being discriminated; distinctness.
discriminating: Marking a difference; distinguishing.-- Dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv.And finds with keen discriminating sight, Black's not so black; --nor white so very white. Canning.
discrimination: The arbitrary imposition of unequal tariffs for substantiallythe same service.A difference in rates, not based upon any corresponding difference incost, constitutes a case of discrimination. A. T. Hadley.
discriminatively: With discrimination or distinction. J. Foster.
discriminator: One who discriminates.
discriminatory: Discriminative.
discriminous: Hazardous; dangerous. [Obs.] Harvey.
discrive: To describe. [Obs.] Chaucer.
discrown: To deprive of a crown.The end had crowned the work; it not unreasonably discrowned theworkman. Motley.
discruciate: To torture; to excruciate. [Obs.]Discruciate a man in deep distress. Herrick.
discubitory: Leaning; fitted for a reclining posture. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
disculpate: To free from blame or the imputation of a fault; to exculpate.I almost fear you think I begged it, but I can disculpate myself.Walpole.
disculpation: Exculpation. Burke.
disculpatory: Tending to exculpate; exculpatory.
discumbency: The act of reclining at table according to the manner of theancients at their meals. Sir T. Browne.
discumber: To free from that which cumbers or impedes; to disencumber.[Archaic] Pope.
discure: To discover; to reveal; to discoure. [Obs.]I will, if please you it discure, assay To ease you of that ill, sowisely as I may. Spenser.
discurrent: Not current or free to circulate; not in use. [Obs.] Sir E.Sandys.
discursion: The act of discoursing or reasoning; range, as from thought tothought. Coleridge.
discursist: A discourser. [Obs.] L. Addison.
discursory: Argumentative; discursive; reasoning. [R.] Bp. Hall.
discursus: Argumentation; ratiocination; discursive reasoning.
discuss: To examine or search thoroughly; to exhaust a remedy against,as against a principal debtor before proceeding against the surety.Burrill.
discusser: One who discusses; one who sifts or examines. Wood.
discussional: Pertaining to discussion.
discussive: Able or tending to discuss or disperse tumors or coagulatedmatter.
discutient: Serving to disperse morbid matter; discussive; as, a discutientapplication.-- n.
disdain: To be filled with scorn; to feel contemptuous anger; to behaughty.And when the chief priests and scribes saw the marvels that he did .. . they disdained. Genevan Testament (Matt. xxi. 15).
disdained: Disdainful. [Obs.]Revenge the jeering and disdained contempt Of this proud king. Shak.
disdainful: Full of disdain; expressing disdain; scornful; contemptuous;haughty.From these Turning disdainful to an equal good. Akenside.-- Dis*dain"ful*ly, adv.-- Dis*dain"ful*ness, n.
disdainishly: Disdainfully. [Obs.] Vives.
disdainous: Disdainful. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
disdainously: Disdainfully. [Obs.] Bale.
disdeify: To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition.Feltham.
disdeign: To disdain. [Obs.]Guyon much disdeigned so loathly sight. Spenser.
disdiaclast: One of the dark particles forming the doubly refracting disksof muscle fibers.
disdiapason: An interval of two octaves, or a fifteenth; -- called alsobisdiapason.
diseased: Afflicted with disease.It is my own diseased imagination that torments me. W. Irving.
diseasedness: The state of being diseased; a morbid state; sickness. [R.] T.Burnet.
diseasefulness: The quality of being diseaseful; trouble; trial. [R.] Sir P.Sidney.
diseasement: Uneasiness; inconvenience. [Obs.] Bacon.
disedge: To deprive of an edge; to blunt; to dull.Served a little to disedge The sharpness of that pain about herheart. Tennyson.
disedify: To fail of edifying; to injure. [R.]
diselder: To deprive of an elder or elders, or of the office of an elder.[Obs.] Fuller.
diselenide: A selenide containing two atoms of selenium in each molecule.
disembark: To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; todebark; as, the general disembarked the troops.
disembarkation: The act of disembarking.
disembarkment: Disembarkation. [R.]
disembarrass: To free from embarrassment, or perplexity; to clear; toextricate.To disembarrass himself of his companion. Sir W. Scott.
disembarrassment: Freedom or relief from impediment or perplexity.
disembay: To clear from a bay. Sherburne.
disembellish: To deprive of embellishment; to disadorn. Carlyle.
disembitter: To free from
disembodied: Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal.The disembodied spirits of the dead. Bryant.
disembodiment: The act of disembodying, or the state of being disembodied.
disembody: To disarm and disband, as a body of soldiers,-Wilhelm.
disembogue: To become discharged; to flow put; to find vent; to pour outcontents.Volcanos bellow ere they disembogue. Young.
disemboguement: The act of disemboguing; discharge. Mease.
disembossom: To separate from the bosom. [R.] Young.
disembowelment: The act of disemboweling, or state of being disemboweled;evisceration.
disembowered: Deprived of, or removed from, a bower. [Poetic] Bryant.
disembrangle: To free from wrangling or litigation. [Obs.] Berkeley.
disembroil: To disentangle; to free from perplexity; to extricate fromconfusion.Vaillant has disembroiled a history that was lost to the world beforehis time. Addison.
disemploy: To throw out of employment. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
disemployment: The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment.This glut of leisure and disemployment. Jer. Taylor.
disempower: To deprive of power; to divest of strength. H. Bushnell.
disenable: To disable; to disqualify.The sight of it might damp me and disenable me to speak. State Trials(1640).
disenamor: To free from the captivity of love. Shelton.
disenchained: Freed from restraint; unrestrained. [Archaic] E. A. Poe.
disenchant: To free from enchantment; to deliver from the power of charmsor spells; to free from fascination or delusion.Haste to thy work; a noble stroke or two Ends all the charms, anddisenchants the grove. Dryden.
disenchanter: One who, or that which, disenchants.
disenchantment: The act of disenchanting, or state of being disenchanted.Shelton.
disencharm: To free from the influence of a charm or spell; to disenchant.[R.] Jer. Taylor.
disenclose: See Disinclose.
disencouragement: Discouragement. [Obs.] Spectator.
disencrese: To decrease. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disencumber: To free from encumbrance, or from anything which clogs,impedes, or obstructs; to disburden. Owen.I have disencumbered myself from rhyme. Dryden.
disencumbrance: Freedom or deliverance from encumbrance, or anything burdensomeor troublesome. Spectator.
disendow: To deprive of an endowment, as a church. Gladstone.
disendowment: The act of depriving of an endowment or endowments.[The] disendowment of the Irish Church. G. B. Smith.
disenfranchise: To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen.-- Dis`en*fran"chise*ment, n.
disengage: To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed,involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; toliberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broilsand controversies, from an oath, promise, or occupation; to disengagethe affections a favorite pursuit, the mind from study.To disengage him and the kingdom, great sums were to be borrowed.Milton.Caloric and light must be disengaged during the process. Transl. ofLavoisier.
disengaged: Not engaged; free from engagement; at leisure; free fromoccupation or care; vacant.-- Dis`en*ga"ged*ness, n.
disengaging: Loosing; setting free; detaching. Disengaging machinery. Seeunder Engaging.
disennoble: To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade.An unworthy behavior degrades and disennobles a man. Guardian.
disenroll: To erase from a roll or list. [Written also disenrol.] Donne.
disensanity: Insanity; folly. [Obs.]What tediosity and disensanity Is here among! Beau. & Fl.
disenshrouded: Freed from a shroudlike covering; unveiled.The disenshrouded statue. R. Browning.
disenslave: To free from bondage or slavery; to disenthrall.He shall disenslave and redeem his soul. South.
disentail: To free from entailment.
disentanglement: The act of disentangling or clearing from difficulties. Warton.
disenter: See Disinter.
disenthrall: To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; todisinthrall. [Written also disenthral.] Milton.
disenthrallment: Liberation from bondage; emancipation; disinthrallment.[Written also disenthralment.]
disenthrone: To dethrone; to depose from sovereign authority. Milton.
disentitle: To deprive of title or claim.Every ordinary offense does not disentitle a son to the love of hisfather. South.
disentomb: To take out from a tomb; a disinter.
disentrail: To disembowel; to let out or draw forth, as the entrails.[Obs.]As if he thought her soul to disentrail. Spenser.
disentrance: To awaken from a trance or an enchantment. Hudibras.
disentwine: To free from being entwined or twisted. Shelley.
disepalous: Having two sepals; two-sepaled.
disert: Eloquent. [Obs.]
disertitude: Eloquence. [Obs.]
diserty: Expressly; clearly; eloquently. [Obs.] Holland.
disespouse: To release from espousal or plighted faith. [Poetic] Milton.
disestablish: To unsettle; to break up (anything established); to deprive, asa church, of its connection with the state. M. Arnold.
disesteem: Want of esteem; low estimation, inclining to dislike; disfavor;disrepute.Disesteem and contempt of the public affairs. Milton.
disesteemer: One who disesteems. Boyle.
disestimation: Disesteem.
disexercise: To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained. [Obs.]By disexercising and blunting our abilities. Milton.
disfame: Disrepute. [R.] Tennyson.
disfancy: To dislike. [Obs.]
disfashion: To disfigure. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
disfavorable: Unfavorable. [Obs.] Stow.
disfavorably: Unpropitiously. [Obs.]
disfavorer: One who disfavors. Bacon.
disfeature: To deprive of features; to mar the features of. [R.]
disfellowship: To exclude from fellowship; to refuse intercourse with, as anassociate.An attempt to disfellowship an evil, but to fellowship the evildoer.Freewill Bapt. Quart.
disfiguration: The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured;defacement; deformity; disfigurement. Gauden.
disfigure: To mar the figure of; to render less complete, perfect, orbeautiful in appearance; to deface; to deform.Disfiguring not God's likeness, but their own. Milton.
disfigurer: One who disfigures.
disflesh: To reduce the flesh or obesity of. [Obs.] Shelton.
disforestation: The act of clearing land of forests. Daniel.
disformity: Discordance or diversity of form; unlikeness in form.Uniformity or disformity in comparing together the respective figuresof bodies. S. Clarke.
disfranchise: To deprive of a franchise or chartered right; to dispossess ofthe rights of a citizen, or of a particular privilege, as of voting,holding office, etc.Sir William Fitzwilliam was disfranchised. Fabyan (1509).He was partially disfranchised so as to be made incapable of takingpart in public affairs. Thirlwall.
disfranchisement: The act of disfranchising, or the state disfranchised;deprivation of privileges of citizenship or of chartered immunities.Sentenced first to dismission from the court, and then todisfranchisement and expulsion from the colony. Palfrey.
disfriar: To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar. [Obs.]Many did quickly unnun and disfriar themselves. Fuller.
disfrock: To unfrock.
disfurnish: To deprive of that with which anything is furnished (furniture,equipments, etc.); to strip; to render destitute; to divest.I am a thing obscure, disfurnished of All merit, that can raise mehigher. Massinger.
disfurnishment: The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.Daniel.
disfurniture: The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.[Obs.]
disgage: To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage. [Obs.] Holland.
disgallant: To deprive of gallantry. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
disgarland: To strip of a garland. [Poetic] "Thy locks disgarland."Drummond.
disgarnish: To divest of garniture; to disfurnish; to dismantle. Bp. Hall.
disgarrison: To deprive of a garrison. Hewyt.
disgavel: To deprive of that principal quality of gavelkind tenure bywhich lands descend equally among all the sons of the tenant; -- saidof lands. Burrill.
disgest: To digest. [Obs.] Bacon.
disgestion: Digestion. [Obs.]
disglorify: To deprive of glory; to treat with indignity. [R.]Disglorified, blasphemed, and had in scorn. Milton.
disglory: Dishonor. [Obs.]To the disglory of God's name. Northbrooke.
disgorge: To vomit forth what anything contains; to discharge; to makerestitution.See where it flows, disgorging at seven mouths Into the sea. Milton.
disgorgement: The act of disgorging; a vomiting; that which is disgorged. Bp.Hall.
disgospel: To be inconsistent with, or act contrary to, the precepts ofthe gospel; to pervert the gospel. [Obs.] Milton.
disgraceful: Bringing disgrace; causing shame; shameful; dishonorable;unbecoming; as, profaneness is disgraceful to a man.-- Dis*grace"ful*fy, adv.-- Dis*grace"ful*ness, n.The Senate have cast you forth disgracefully. B. Jonson.
disgracer: One who disgraces.
disgracious: Wanting grace; unpleasing; disagreeable. Shak.
disgracive: Disgracing. [Obs.] Feltham.
disgradation: Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors.
disgrade: To degrade. [Obs.] Foxe.
disgraduate: To degrade; to reduce in rank. [Obs.] Tyndale.
disgregate: To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate. [Obs.]
disgregation: The process of separation, or the condition of being separate,as of the molecules of a body.
disgruntle: To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger. [Colloq.]
disguisedly: In disguise.
disguisedness: The state of being disguised.
disguisement: Disguise. [R.] Spenser.
disguising: A masque or masquerade. [Obs.]
disgust: To provoke disgust or strong distaste in; to cause (any one)loathing, as of the stomach; to excite aversion in; to offend themoral taste of; -- often with at, with, or by.To disgust him with the world and its vanities. Prescott.Ærius is expressly declared . . . to have been disgusted at failing.J. H. Newman.Alarmed and disgusted by the proceedings of the convention. Macaulay.
disgustful: Provoking disgust; offensive to the taste; exciting aversion;disgusting.That horrible and disgustful situation. Burke.
disgustfulness: The state of being disgustful.
disgusting: That causes disgust; sickening; offensive; revolting.-- Dis*gust"ing*ly, adv.
dishabilitate: To disqualify. [R.]
dishabille: An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille.They breakfast in dishabille. Smollett.
dishabit: To dislodge. [Obs.]Those sleeping stones . . . from their fixed beds of lime Had beendishabited. Shak.
dishabited: Rendered uninhabited. "Dishabited towns." R. Carew.
dishabituate: To render unaccustomed.
dishallow: To make unholy; to profane. Tennyson.Nor can the unholiness of the priest dishallow the altar. T. Adams.
disharmonious: Unharmonious; discordant. [Obs.] Hallywell.
disharmony: Want of harmony; discord; incongruity. [R.]A disharmony in the different impulses that constitute it [ournature]. Coleridge.
dishaunt: To leave; to quit; to cease to haunt. Halliwell.
dishcloth: A cloth used for washing dishes.
dishclout: A dishcloth. [Obsolescent]
disheart: To dishearten. [Obs.]
dishearten: To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress thespirits of; to deject.Regiments . . . utterly disorganized and disheartened. Macaulay.
disheartenment: Discouragement; dejection; depression of spirits.
disheir: To disinherit. [Obs.] Dryden.
dishelm: To deprive of the helmet. [Poetic]Lying stark, Dishelmed and mute, and motionlessly pale. Tennyson.
disherison: The act of disheriting, or debarring from inheritance;disinhersion. Bp. Hall.
disherit: To disinherit; to cut off, or detain, from the possession orenjoyment of an inheritance. [Obs.] Spenser.
disheritance: The act of disinheriting or state of being disinherited;disinheritance. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
disheritor: One who puts another out of his inheritance.
dishevel: To be spread in disorder or hang negligently, as the hair. [R.]Sir T. Herbert.
dishevele: Disheveled. [Obs.]Dishevele, save his cap, he rode all bare. Chaucer.
dishful: As much as a dish holds when full.
dishing: Dish-shaped; concave.
dishonest: To disgrace; to dishonor; as, to dishonest a maid. [Obs.]I will no longer dishonest my house. Chapman.
dishonestly: In a dishonest manner.
dishonor: The nonpayment or nonacceptance of commercial paper by theparty on whom it is drawn.
dishonorary: Bringing dishonor on; tending to disgrace; lesseningreputation. Holmes.
dishonorer: One who dishonors or disgraces; one who treats anotherindignity. Milton.
dishorn: To deprive of horns; as, to dishorn cattle. "Dishorn thespirit." Shak.
dishorse: To dismount. Tennyson.
dishouse: To deprive of house or home. "Dishoused villagers." JamesWhite.
dishumor: Ill humor. [Obs.]
dishwasher: A European bird; the wagtail.
dishwater: Water in which dishes have been washed. "Suds and dishwater."Beau. & Fl.
disillusion: The act or process of freeing from an illusion, or the state ofbeing freed therefrom. Lowell.
disillusionize: To disenchant; to free from illusion. "The bitterdisillusionizing experience of postnuptial life." W. Black.
disillusionment: The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of beingfreed therefrom.
disimbitter: To free from bitterness.
disimpark: To free from the barriers or restrictions of a park. [R.]Spectator.
disimpassioned: Free from warmth of passion or feeling.
disimprove: To make worse; -- the opposite of improve. [R.] Jer. Taylor.
disimprovement: Reduction from a better to a worse state; as, disimprovement ofthe earth.
disincarcerate: To liberate from prison. [R.] Harvey.
disinclination: The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, oraffection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition.Disappointment gave him a disinclination to the fair sex. Arbuthnot.Having a disinclination to books or business. Guardian.
disincline: To incline away the affections of; to excite a slight aversionin; to indispose; to make unwilling; to alienate.Careful . . . to disincline them from any reverence or affection tothe Queen. Clarendon.To social scenes by nature disinclined. Cowper.
disinclose: To free from being inclosed.
disincorporate: Separated from, or not included in, a corporation;disincorporated. Bacon.
disincorporation: Deprivation of the rights and privileges of a corporation. T.Warton.
disinfect: To free from infectious or contagious matter; to destroyputrefaction; to purify; to make innocuous.When the infectious matter and the infectious matter and theodoriferous matter are one . . . then to deodorize is to disinfect.Ure.
disinfectant: That which disinfects; an agent for removing the causes ofinfection, as chlorine.
disinfection: The act of disinfecting; purification from infecting matter.
disinfector: One who, or that which, disinfects; an apparatus for applyingdisinfectants.
disinflame: To divest of flame or ardor. Chapman.
disingenuity: Disingenuousness. [Obs.] Clarendon.
disinhabited: Uninhabited. [Obs.]
disinherison: Same as Disherison. Bacon.
disinheritance: The act of disinheriting, or the condition of being;disinherited; disherison.
disinhume: To disinter. [R.]
disinsure: To render insecure; to put in danger. [Obs.] Fanshawe.
disintegrable: Capable of being disintegrated, or reduced to fragments orpowder.Argillo-calcite is readily disintegrable by exposure. Kirwan.
disintegrate: To separate into integrant parts; to reduce to fragments or topowder; to break up, or cause to fall to pieces, as a rock, by blowsof a hammer, frost, rain, and other mechanical or atmosphericinfluences.Marlites are not disintegrated by exposure to the atmosphere, atleast in six years. Kirwan.
disintegrator: A machine for grinding or pulverizing by percussion.
disinteress: To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.[Obs.]
disinteressment: Disinterestedness; impartiality; fairness. [Obs.] Prior.
disinterest: Disinterested. [Obs.]The measures they shall walk by shall be disinterest and even. Jer.Taylor.
disinterested: Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage;free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling;not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge.The happiness of disinterested sacrifices. Channing.
disinterestedly: In a disinterested manner; without bias or prejudice.
disinterestedness: The state or quality of being disinterested; impartiality.That perfect disinterestedness and self-devotion of which man seemsto be incapable, but which is sometimes found in woman. Macaulay.
disinteresting: Uninteresting. [Obs.] "Disinteresting passages." Bp. Warburton.
disinterment: The act of disinterring, or taking out of the earth;exhumation.
disinthrall: To free from thralldom; to disenthrall. [Written alsodisinthral.]
disinthrallment: A releasing from thralldom or slavery; disenthrallment.[Written also disinthralment.]
disintricate: To disentangle. [R.] "To disintricate the question." Sir W.Hamilton.
disinure: To render unaccustomed or unfamiliar.We are hindered and disinured . . . towards the true knowledge.Milton.
disinvestiture: The act of depriving of investiture. [Obs.] Ogilvie.
disinvigorate: To enervate; to weaken. [R.] Sydney Smith.
disinvolve: To uncover; to unfold or unroll; to disentangle. [R.] Dr. H.More.
disjection: Destruction; dispersion. Bp. Horsley.
disjoin: To part; to disunite; to separate; to sunder.That marriage, therefore, God himself disjoins. Milton.Never let us lay down our arms against France, till we have utterlydisjoined her from the Spanish monarchy. Addison.Windmill Street consisted of disjoined houses. Pennant.
disjoint: Disjointed; unconnected; -- opposed to conjoint. Milton.
disjointed: Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent.-- Dis*joint"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis*joint"ed*ness, n.
disjointly: In a disjointed state. Sandys.
disjudication: Judgment; discrimination. See Dijudication. [Obs.] Boyle.
disjunct: Having the head, thorax, and abdomen separated by a deepconstriction. Disjunct tetrachords (Mus.), tetrachords so disposed toeach other that the gravest note of the upper is one note higher thanthe acutest note of the other.
disjunctive: Pertaining to disjunct tetrachords. "Disjunctive notes." Moore(Encyc. of Music). Disjunctive conjunction (Gram.), one connectinggrammatically two words or clauses, expressing at the same time anopposition or separation inherent in the notions or thoughts; as,either, or, neither, nor, but, although, except, lest, etc.-- Disjunctive proposition, one in which the parts are connected bydisjunctive conjunctions; as it is either day or night.-- Disjunctive syllogism (Logic), one in which the major propositionis disjunctive; as, the earth moves in a circle or an ellipse; but indoes not move in a circle, therefore it moves in an ellipse.
disjunctively: In a disjunctive manner; separately. Dr. H. More.
disjuncture: The act of disjoining, or state of being disjoined; separation.Fuller.
disk: The circular figure of a celestial body, as seen projected ofthe heavens.
disk clutch: A friction clutch in which the gripping surfaces are disks ormore or less resemble disks.
diskindness: Unkindness; disservice. [R.] A. Tucker.
diskless: Having no disk; appearing as a point and not expanded into adisk, as the image of a faint star in a telescope.
dislade: To unlade. [Obs.] Heywood.
disleal: Disloyal; perfidious. [Obs.] "Disleal knight." Spenser.
disleave: To deprive of leaves. [R.]The cankerworms that annually that disleaved the elms. Lowell.
dislikeful: Full of dislike; disaffected; malign; disagreeable. [Obs.]Spenser.
dislikelihood: The want of likelihood; improbability. Sir W. Scott.
disliken: To make unlike; to disguise. [Obs.] Shak.
dislikeness: Unlikeness. [R.] Locke.
disliker: One who dislikes or disrelishes.
dislimb: To tear limb from limb; to dismember. [Obs.] Bailey.
dislimn: To efface, as a picture. [Obs.] Shak.
dislink: To unlink; to disunite; to separate. [R.] Tennyson.
dislive: To deprive of life. [Obs.]Telemachus dislived Amphimedon. Chapman.
dislocate: To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of abone
dislocation: The displacement of parts of rocks or portions of strata fromthe situation which they originally occupied. Slips, faults, and thelike, are dislocations.
dislodge: To go from a place of rest. [R.]Where Light and Darkness in perpetual round Lodge and dislodge byturns. Milton.
dislodgment: The act or process of dislodging, or the state of beingdislodged.
disloign: To put at a distance; to remove. [Obs.]Low-looking dales, disloigned from common gaze. Spenser.
disloyal: Not loyal; not true to a sovereign or lawful superior, or tothe government under which one lives; false where allegiance is due;faithless; as, a subject disloyal to the king; a husband disloyal tohis wife.Without a thought disloyal. Mrs. Browning.
disloyally: In a disloyal manner.
disloyalty: Want of loyalty; lack of fidelity; violation of allegiance.
dismail: To divest of coat of mail. Spenser.
dismally: In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably.
dismalness: The quality of being dismal; gloominess.
disman: To unman. [Obs.] Feltham.
dismarch: To march away. [Obs.]
dismarry: To free from the bonds of marriage; to divorce. [Obs.] Ld.Berners.
dismarshal: To disarrange; to derange; to put in disorder. [R.] Drummond.
dismask: To divest of a mask. Shak.
dismast: To deprive of a mast of masts; to break and carry away themasts from; as, a storm dismasted the ship.
dismastment: The act of dismasting; the state of being dismasted. [R.]Marshall.
dismaw: To eject from the maw; to disgorge. [R.] Shelton.
dismay: To take dismay or fright; to be filled with dismay. [Obs.]Shak.
dismayedness: A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage;dispiritedness.
dismayful: Terrifying. Spenser.
disme: A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe. Ayliffe.
dismemberment: The act of dismembering, or the state of being dismembered;cutting in piece; mThe Castilians would doubtless have resented the dismemberment of theunwieldy body of which they formed the head. Macaulay.
dismettled: Destitute of mettle, that is, or fire or spirit. [R.]Llewellyn.
dismiss: Dismission. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.
dismissal: Dismission; discharge.Officeholders were commanded faithfully to enforce it, upon pain ofimmediate dismissal. Motley.
dismissive: Giving dismission.
dismortgage: To redeem from mortgage. [Obs.] Howell.
dismount: To take down, or apart, as a machine.
disnaturalize: To make alien; to deprive of the privileges of birth. Locke.
disnatured: Deprived or destitute of natural feelings; unnatural. [Obs.]Shak.
disobedience: Neglect or refusal to obey; violation of a command orprohibition.He is undutiful to him other actions, and lives in open disobedience.Tillotson.
disobediency: Disobedience.
disobediently: In a disobedient manner.
disobeisance: Disobedience. [Obs.] E. Hall.
disobeisant: Disobedient. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disobey: Not to obey; to neglect or refuse to obey (a superior or hiscommands, the laws, etc.); to transgress the commands of (one inauthority); to violate, as an order; as, refractory children disobeytheir parents; men disobey their Maker and the laws.Not to disobey her lord's behest. Tennyson.
disobeyer: One who disobeys.
disobligatory: Releasing from obligation. "Disobligatory power." Charles I.
disobligement: Release from obligation. [Obs.]
disobliger: One who disobliges.
disoccident: To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as tolongitude. [Obs.] Marvell.
disoccupation: The state of being unemployed; want of occupation. [R.]
disopinion: Want or difference of belief; disbelief. [Obs.] Bp. Reynolds.
disoppilate: To open. [Obs.] Holland.
disorb: To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere. Shak.
disord: Disorder. [Obs.] Holland.
disordeined: Inordinate; irregular; vicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disorderliness: The state of being disorderly.
disorderly: Offensive to good morals and public decency; notoriouslyoffensive; as, a disorderly house.
disordinance: Disarrangement; disturbance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disordinate: Inordinate; disorderly. [Obs.] "With disordinate gestures."Prynne.
disordinately: Inordinately. [Obs.] E. Hall.
disordination: The state of being in disorder; derangement; confusion. [Obs.]Bacon.
disorganize: To destroy the organic structure or regular system of (agovernment, a society, a party, etc.); to break up (what isorganized); to throw into utter disorder; to disarrange.Lyford . . . attempted to disorganize the church. Eliot (1809).
disorganizer: One who disorganizes or causes disorder and confusion.
disorient: To turn away from the cast; to confuse as to which way is east;to cause to lose one's bearings. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
disorientate: To turn away from the east, or (figuratively) from the right orthe truth. [R.]
disownment: Act of disowning. [R.]
disoxidate: To deoxidate; to deoxidize. [R.]
disoxidation: Deoxidation. [R.]
disoxygenate: To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize. [R.]
disoxygenation: Deoxidation. [R.]
dispace: To roam. [Obs.]In this fair plot dispacing to and fro. Spenser.
dispair: To separate (a pair). [R.]I have . . . dispaired two doves. Beau. & Fl.
dispand: To spread out; to expand. [Obs.] Bailey.
dispansion: Act of dispanding, or state of being dispanded. [Obs.]
disparadised: Removed from paradise. [R.] Cockeram.
disparage: Inequality in marriage; marriage with an inferior. [Obs.]Chaucer.Dissuaded her from such a disparage. Spenser.
disparager: One who disparages or dishonors; one who vilifies or disgraces.
disparagingly: In a manner to disparage or dishonor; slightingly.
disparate: Pertaining to two coördinate species or divisions.
disparates: Things so unequal or unlike that they can not be compared witheach other.
disparition: Act of disappearing; disappearance. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
disparity: Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence;dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.; as,disparity in, or of, years; a disparity as to color.The disparity between God and his intelligent creatures. I. Taylor.The disparity of numbers was not such as ought to cause anyuneasiness. Macaulay.
disparkle: To scatter abroad. [Obs.] Holland.
dispart: To part asunder; to divide; to separate; to sever; to rend; torive or split; as, disparted air; disparted towers. [Archaic]Them in twelve troops their captain did dispart. Spenser.The world will be whole, and refuses to be disparted. Emerson.
dispassion: Freedom from passion; an undisturbed state; apathy. Sir W.Temple.
dispassioned: Free from passion; dispassionate. [R.] "Dispassioned men."Donne.
dispatch: To make haste; to conclude an affair; to finish a matter ofbusiness.They have dispatched with Pompey. Shak.
dispatcher: One who dispatches.
dispatchful: Bent on haste; intent on speedy execution of business or anytask; indicating haste; quick; as, dispatchful looks. Milton.
dispatchment: The act of dispatching. [Obs.] State Trials (1529).
dispathy: Lack of sympathy; want of passion; apathy. [R.]Many discrepancies and some dispathies between us. Southey.
dispauper: To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; todeprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis.
dispauperize: To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers. J. S. Mill.
dispeed: To send off with speed; to dispatch. [Obs.] Knolles.Then they dispeeded themselves of the Cid and of their mother-in-law,DoSouthey.
dispel: To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clearaway; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares,doubts, illusions.[Satan] gently raised their fainting courage, and dispelled theirfears. Milton.I saw myself the lambent easy light Gild the brown horror, and dispelthe night. Dryden.
dispence: See Dispense. [Obs.]
dispend: To spend; to lay out; to expend. [Obs.] Spenser.Able to dispend yearly twenty pounds and above. Fuller.
dispender: One who dispends or expends; a steward. [Obs.] Wyclif (1 Cor.iv. 1).
dispensableness: Quality of being dispensable.
dispensation: a system of principles, promises, and rules ordained andadministered; scheme; economy; as, the Patriarchal, Mosaic, andChristian dispensations.Neither are God's methods or intentions different in hisdispensations to each private man. Rogers.
dispensative: Granting dispensation.
dispensatively: By dispensation. Wotton.
dispensator: A distributer; a dispenser. Bacon.
dispensatorily: In the way of dispensation; dispensatively.
dispensatory: Granting, or authorized to grant, dispensations. "Dispensatorypower." Bp. Rainbow.
dispense: Dispensation; exemption. [Obs.]
dispenser: One who, or that which, dispenses; a distributer; as, adispenser of favors.
dispeople: To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.Leave the land dispeopled and desolate. Sir T. More.A certain island long before dispeopled . . . by sea rivers. Milton.
dispeopler: One who, or that which, dispeoples; a depopulator. Gay.
disperge: To sprinkle. [Obs.]
dispermous: Containing only two seeds; two-seeded.
disperple: To scatter; to sprinkle. [Obs.]Odorous water was Disperpled lightly on my head and neck. Chapman.
dispersal: The act or result of dispersing or scattering; dispersion.Darwin.
dispersed: Scattered.-- Dis*pers"ed*ly, adv.-- Dis*pers"ed*ness, n. Dispersed harmony (Mus.), harmony in whichthe tones composing the chord are widely separated, as by an octaveor more.
disperseness: Dispersedness. [Obs.]
disperser: One that disperses.
dispersion: The separation of light into its different colored rays,arising from their different refrangibilities. Dispersion of theoptic axes (Crystallog.), the separation of the optic axes in biaxialcrystals, due to the fact that the axial angle has different valuesfor the different colors of the spectrum.
dispersive: Tending to disperse. Dispersive power (Opt.), the relativeeffect of a material in separating the different rays of light byrefraction, as when the substance is formed into a prism.-- Dis*pers"ive*ness, n.
dispersonate: To deprive of personality or individuality. [R.]We multiply; we dispersonate ourselves. Hare.
dispirited: Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted.-- Dis*pir"it*ed*ly, adv.-- Dis*pir"it*ed, n.
dispiritment: Depression of spirits; discouragement. [R.]Procter, in evident distress and dispiritment, was waiting the slowconclusion of this. Carlyle.
dispiteous: Full of despite; cruel; spiteful; pitiless. Spenser.-- Dis*pit"e*ous*ly, adv. [Obs.]
displaceable: Capable of being displaced.
displacement: The process of extracting soluble substances from organicmaterial and the like, whereby a quantity of saturated solvent isdisplaced, or removed, for another quantity of the solvent. Pistondisplacement (Mech.), the volume of the space swept through, orweight of steam, water, etc., displaced, in a given time, by thepiston of a steam engine or pump.
displacency: Want of complacency or gratification; envious displeasure;dislike. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
displacer: The funnel part of the apparatus for solution by displacement.
displantation: The act of displanting; removal; displacement. Sir W. Raleigh.
displat: To untwist; to uncurl; to unplat. [Obs.] Hakewill.
display: To extend the front of (a column), bringing it into line.Farrow.
displayed: With wings expanded; -- said of a bird of pray, esp. an eagle.
displayer: One who, or that which, displays.
disple: To discipline; to correct. [Obs.]And bitter Penance, with an iron whip, Was wont him once to displeevery day. Spenser.
displeasance: Displeasure; discontent; annoyance. [Obs.] Chaucer.
displeasant: Unpleasing; offensive; unpleasant. [Obs.] Speed.-- Dis*pleas"ant*ly, adv. [Obs.] Strype.-- Dis*pleas"ant*ness, n. [Obs.]
displease: To give displeasure or offense. [Obs.]
displeasedly: With displeasure. [R.]
displeasedness: Displeasure. [R.] South.
displeaser: One who displeases.
displeasing: Causing displeasure or dissatisfaction; offensive;disagreeable.-- Dis*pleas"ing*ly, adv.-- Dis*pleas"ing*ness, n. Locke.
displeasure: To displease. [Obs.] Bacon.
displenish: To deprive or strip, as a house of furniture, or a barn ofstock. [Scot.]
displode: To discharge; to explode.In posture to displode their second tire Of thunder. Milton.
displosion: Explosion.The vast displosion dissipates the clouds. Young.
displosive: Explosive.
displume: To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive ofdecoration; to dishonor; to degrade.Displumed, degraded, and metamorphosed. Burke.
dispoline: One of several isomeric organic bases of the quinoline seriesof alkaloids.
dispond: See Despond.
dispondee: A double spondee; a foot consisting of four long syllables.
dispone: To dispose.
disponee: The person to whom any property is legally conveyed.
disponer: One who legally transfers property from himself to another.
disponge: To sprinkle, as with water from a sponge. [Poetic & Rare][Written also dispunge.]O sovereign mistress of true melancholy, The poisonous damp of nightdisponge upon me. Shak.
dispope: To refuse to consider as pope; to depose from the popedom.One whom they disposed. Tennyson.
disporous: Having two spores.
disport: Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness. Milton.
disportment: Act of disporting; diversion; play. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
disposable: Subject to disposal; free to be used or employed as occasionmay require; not assigned to any service or use.The great of this kingdom . . . has easily afforded a disposablesurplus. Burke.
dispose: To bargain; to make terms. [Obs.]She had disposed with Cæsar. Shak.
disposedness: The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination;propensity. [R.]
disposement: Disposal. [Obs.] Goodwin.
disposer: One who, or that which, disposes; a regulator; a director; abestower.Absolute lord and disposer of all things. Barrow.
disposingly: In a manner to dispose.
disposited: Disposed. [Obs.] Glanvill.
dispositional: Pertaining to disposition.
dispositioned: Having (such) a disposition; -- used in compounds; as, well-dispositioned.
dispositively: In a dispositive manner; by natural or moral disposition.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.Do dispositively what Moses is recorded to have done literally, . . .break all the ten commandments at once. Boyle.
dispositor: The planet which is lord of the sign where another planet is.[Obs.] Crabb.
dispossess: To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancyof, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; --usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossessa king of his crown.Usurp the land, and dispossess the swain. Goldsmith.
dispossession: The putting out of possession, wrongfully or otherwise, of onewho is in possession of a freehold, no matter in what title; --called also ouster.
dispossessor: One who dispossesses. Cowley.
dispost: To eject from a post; to displace. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).
dispraisable: Blamable. [R.]
dispraise: To withdraw praise from; to notice with disapprobation or somedegree of censure; to disparage; to blame.Dispraising the power of his adversaries. Chaucer.I dispraised him before the wicked, that the wicked might not fall inlove with him. Shak.
dispraiser: One who blames or dispraises.
dispraisingly: By way of dispraise.
dispread: To spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open;as, the sun dispreads his beams. Spenser.
dispreader: One who spreads abroad.Dispreaders both of vice and error. Milton.
disprejudice: To free from prejudice. [Obs.] W. Montagu.
disprepare: To render unprepared. [Obs.] Hobbes.
disprince: To make unlike a prince. [R.]For I was drench'd with ooze, and torn with briers, . . . And, allone rag, disprinced from head to heel. Tennyson.
disprison: To let loose from prison, to set all liberty. [R.] Bulwer.
disprivilege: To deprive of a privilege or privileges. [R.]
disprize: To do preciate. [R.] Cotton (Ode to Lydia).
disprofess: To renounce the profession or pursuit of.His arms, which he had vowed to disprofess. Spenser.
disprofit: Loss; damage. Foxe.
disprofitable: Unprofitable. [Obs.]
disproof: A proving to be false or erroneous; confutation; refutation;as, to offer evidence in disproof of a statement.I need not offer anything farther in support of one, or in disproofof the other. Rogers.
disproperty: To cause to be no longer property; to dispossess of. [R.] Shak.
disproportion: To make unsuitable in quantity, form, or fitness to an end; toviolate symmetry in; to mismatch; to join unfitly.To shape my legs of an unequal size; To disproportion me in everypart. Shak.A degree of strength altogether disproportioned to the extent of itsterritory. Prescott.
disproportionable: Disproportional; unsuitable in form, size, quantity, oradaptation; disproportionate; inadequate.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*a*ble*ness, n. Hammond.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*a*bly, adv.
disproportional: Not having due proportion to something else; not havingproportion or symmetry of parts; unsuitable in form, quantity orvalue; inadequate; unequal; as, a disproportional limb constitutesdeformity in the body; the studies of youth should not bedisproportional to their understanding.
disproportionality: The state of being disproportional. Dr. H. More.
disproportionally: In a disproportional manner; unsuitably in form, quantity, orvalue; unequally.
disproportionate: Not proportioned; unsymmetrical; unsuitable to something elsein bulk, form, value, or extent; out of proportion; inadequate; as,in a perfect body none of the limbs are disproportionate; it iswisdom not to undertake a work disproportionate means.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*ate*ly, adv.-- Dis`pro*por"tion*ate*ness, n.
dispropriate: To cancel the appropriation of; to disappropriate. [R.]
disprovable: Capable of being disproved or refuted. Boyle.
disproval: Act of disproving; disproof. [R.]
disprover: One who disproves or confutes.
disprovide: Not to provide; to fail to provide. [Obs.] Boyle.
dispunct: Wanting in punctilious respect; discourteous. [Obs.]That were dispunct to the ladies. B. Jonson.
dispunge: To expunge; to erase. [Obs.]
dispunishable: Without penal restraint; not punishable. [R.] Swift.
dispurpose: To dissuade; to frustrate; as, to dispurpose plots. [R.] A.Brewer.
dispurse: To disburse. [Obs.] Shak.
dispurvey: To disfurnish; to strip. [Obs.] Heywood.
dispurveyance: Want of provisions; [Obs.] Spenser.
disputableness: State of being disputable.
disputacity: Proneness to dispute. [Obs.] Bp. Ward.
disputant: Disputing; engaged in controversy. Milton.
disputatious: Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterizedby dispute; as, a disputatious person or temper.The Christian doctrine of a future life was no recommendation of thenew religion to the wits and philosophers of that disputationsperiod. Buckminster.-- Dis`pu*ta"tious*ly, adv.-- Dis`pu*ta"tious*ness, n.
disputative: Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason inopposition; as, a disputative temper. I. Watts.
dispute: To contend in argument; to argue against something maintained,upheld, or claimed, by another; to discuss; to reason; to debate; toaltercate; to wrangle.Therefore disputed [reasoned, Rev. Ver.] he in synagogue with the Jews. Acts xvii. 17.
disputeless: Admitting no dispute; incontrovertible. Bailey.
disputer: One who disputes, or who is given to disputes; a controvertist.Where is the disputer of this world 1 Cor. i. 20.
disputison: Dispute; discussion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
disquantity: To diminish the quantity of; to lessen. [Obs.] Shak.
disquiet: Deprived of quiet; impatient; restless; uneasy. [R.] Shak.
disquietal: The act of disquieting; a state of disquiet. [Obs.][It] roars and strives 'gainst its disquietal. Dr. H. More.
disquieter: One who, or that which, disquiets, or makes uneasy; adisturber.
disquietful: Producing inquietude or uneasiness. [R.] Barrow.
disquietive: Tending to disquiet. [R.]
disquietly: In a disquiet manner; uneasily; as, he rested disquietly thatnight. [R.] Wiseman.
disquietment: State of being disquieted; uneasiness; harassment. [R.]Hopkins.
disquietness: Disturbance of quiet in body or mind; restlessness; uneasiness.Hooker.
disquietous: Causing uneasiness. [R.]So distasteful and disquietous to a number of men. Milton.
disquiettude: Want of peace or tranquility; uneasiness; disturbance;agitation; anxiety.Fears and disquietude, and unavoidable anxieties of mind. Abp. Sharp.
disquisition: A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, anysubject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with thearguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.For accurate research or grave disquisition he was not wellqualified. Macaulay.
disquisitional: Pertaining to disquisition; of the nature of disquisition.
disquisitionary: Pertaining to disquisition; disquisitional.
disquisitive: Relating to disquisition; fond discussion or investigation;examining; inquisitive.
disquisitorial: Disquisitory.
disquisitory: Of or pertaining to disquisition; disquisitive. Ed. Rev.
disrange: To disarrange. [Obs.] Wood.
disrate: To reduce to a lower rating or rank; to degrade. Marryat.
disray: of Disarray. [Obs.] Holland.
disrealize: To divest of reality; to make uncertain. [Obs.] Udall.
disregard: Not to regard; to pay no heed to; to omit to take notice of; toneglect to observe; to slight as unworthy of regard or notice; as, todisregard the admonitions of conscience.Studious of good, man disregarded fame. Blackmore.
disregarder: One who disregards.
disregardful: Neglect; negligent; heedless; regardless.
disregardfully: Negligently; heedlessly.
disremember: To fail to remember; to forget. [Obs. or Archaic]
disrepair: A state of being in bad condition, and wanting repair.The fortifications were ancient and in disrepair. Sir W. Scott.
disreputability: The state of being disreputable. [R.]
disreputable: Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable;disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it isdisreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and theprofane.Why should you think that conduct disreputable in priests which youprobably consider as laudable in yourself Bp. Watson.
disreputably: In a disreputable manner.
disreputation: Loss or want of reputation or good name; dishonor; disrepute;disesteem. "A disreputation of piety." Jer. Taylor.
disrepute: Loss or want of reputation; ill character; disesteem;discredit.At the beginning of the eighteenth century astrology fell intogeneral disrepute. Sir W. Scott.
disrespect: Want of respect or reverence; disesteem; incivility;discourtesy.Impatience of bearing the least affront or disrespect. Pope.
disrespectability: Want of respectability. Thackeray.
disrespectable: Not respectable; disreputable. M. Arnold.
disrespecter: One who disrespects.
disrespectful: Wanting in respect; manifesting disesteem or lack of respect;uncivil; as, disrespectful behavior.-- Dis`re*spect"ful*ly, adv.-- Dis`re*spect"ful*ness, n.
disrespective: Showing want of respect; disrespectful. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
disreverence: To treat irreverently or with disrespect. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
disrobe: To divest of a robe; to undress; figuratively, to strip ofcovering; to divest of that which clothes or decorates; as, autumndisrobes the fields of verdure.Two great peers were disrobed of their glory. Sir H. Wotton.
disrober: One who, or that which, disrobes.
disroof: To unroof. [R.] Carlyle.
disroot: To tear up the roots of, or by the roots; hence, to tear from afoundation; to uproot.A piece of ground disrooted from its situation by subterraneousinundations. Goldsmith.
disrout: To put to rout. Taylor (1630).
disrudder: To deprive of the rudder, as a ship.
disrulily: In a disorderly manner. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
disruly: Unruly; disorderly. [Obs.]
disrupt: Rent off; torn asunder; severed; disrupted.
disruption: The act or rending asunder, or the state of being rent asunderor broken in pieces; breach; rent; dilaceration; rupture; as, thedisruption of rocks in an earthquake; disruption of a state.
disruptive: Causing, or tending to cause, disruption; caused by disruption;breaking through; bursting; as, the disruptive discharge of anelectrical battery. Nichol.
disrupture: Disruption. [R.] Jefferson.
dissatisfaction: The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented;uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or fromdisappointed wishes and expectations.The ambitious man has little happiness, but is subject to muchuneasiness and dissatisfaction. Addison.
dissatisfactory: Causing dissatisfaction; unable to give content;unsatisfactory; displeasing.To have reduced the different qualifications in the different Statesto one uniform rule, would probably have been as dissatisfactory tosome of the States, as difficult for the Convention. A. Hamilton.-- Dis*sat`is*fac"to*ri*ness, n.
dissatisfy: To render unsatisfied or discontented; to excite uneasiness inby frustrating wishes or expectations; to displease by the want ofsomething requisite; as, to be dissatisfied with one's fortune.The dissatisfied factions of the autocracy. Bancroft.
disseat: To unseat. [R.] Shak.
dissect: To divide into separate parts; to cut in pieces; to separateand expose the parts of, as an animal or a plant, for examination andto show their structure and relations; to anatomize.
dissected: Cut deeply into many lobes or divisions; as, a dissected leaf.
dissectible: Capable of being dissected, or separated by dissection. Paley.
dissector: One who dissects; an anatomist.
disseize: To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oustwrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of;as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold. [Written also disseise.]Which savage beasts strive as eagerly to keep and hold those goldenmines, as the Arimaspians to disseize them thereof. Holland.
disseizee: A person disseized, or put out of possession of an estateunlawfully; -- correlative to disseizor. [Written also disseisee.]
disseizin: The act of disseizing; an unlawful dispossessing and ouster ofa person actually seized of the freehold. [Written also disseisin.]Blackstone.
disseizor: One who wrongfully disseizes, or puts another out of possessionof a freehold. [Written also disseisor.] Blackstone.
disseizoress: A woman disseizes.
disseizure: Disseizin. Speed.
dissemblance: Want of resemblance; dissimilitude. [R.] Osborne.
dissemble: To conceal the real fact, motives,He that hateth dissembleth with his lips. Prov. xxvi. 24.He [an enemy] dissembles when he assumes an air of friendship. C. J.Smith.
dissembler: One who dissembles; one who conceals his opinions ordispositions under a false appearance; a hypocrite.It is the weakest sort of politicians that are the greatestdissemblers. Bacon.Priests, princes, women, no dissemblers here. Pope.
dissembling: That dissembles; hypocritical; false.-- Dis*sem"bling*ly, adv.
disseminated: Occurring in small portions scattered through some othersubstance.
dissemination: The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated;diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreadingabroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc.The universal dissemination of those writings. Wayland.
disseminative: Tending to disseminate, or to become disseminated.The effect of heresy is, like the plague, infectious anddisseminative. Jer. Taylor.
disseminator: One who, or that which, disseminates, spreads, or propagates;as, disseminators of disease.
dissension: Disagreement in opinion, usually of a violent character,producing warm debates or angry words; contention in words; partisanand contentious divisions; breach of friendship and union; strife;discord; quarrel.Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them.Acts xv. 2.Debates, dissension, uproars are thy joy. Dryden.A seditious person and raiser-up of dissension among the people.Robynson (More's Utopia).
dissensious: Disposed to discord; contentious; dissentious. [R.] Ascham.-- Dis*sen"sious*ly, adv. Chapman.
dissent: To differ from an established church in regard to doctrines,rites, or government.
dissentaneous: Disagreeing; contrary; differing; -- opposed to consentaneous.[R.] Barrow.
dissentany: Dissentaneous; inconsistent. [Obs.] Milton.
dissentation: Dissension. [Obs.] W. Browne.
dissenter: One who separates from the service and worship of anestablished church; especially, one who disputes the authority ortenets of the Church of England; a nonconformist.Dissenters from the establishment of their several countries. Burke.Robert Brown is said to have the first formal dissenter. Shipley.
dissenterism: The spirit or principles of dissenters. Ed. Rev.
dissentiate: To throw into a state of dissent. [R.] Feltham.
dissentient: Disagreeing; declaring dissent; dissenting.-- n.
dissentious: Marked by dissensions; apt to breed discord; quarrelsome;contentious; factious.-- Dis*sen"tious*ly, adv.
dissentive: Disagreeing; inconsistent. [Obs.] Feltham.
dissepiment: One of the partitions which divide a compound ovary into cells.
dissert: To discourse or dispute; to discuss. [R.]We have disserted upon it a little longer than was necessary.Jeffrey.
dissertate: To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse.[R.] J. Foster.
dissertation: A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written;a disquisition; an essay; a discussion; as, Dissertations on theProphecies.
dissertational: Relating to dissertations; resembling a dissertation.
dissertationist: A writer of dissertations.
dissertator: One who writers a dissertation; one who discourses. Boyle.
dissertly: See Disertly. [Obs.]
disserve: To fail to serve; to do injury or mischief to; to damage; tohurt; to harm.Have neither served nor disserved the interests of any party. Jer.Taylor.
disservice: Injury; mischief.We shall rather perform good offices unto truth than any disserviceunto their relators. Sir T. Browne.
disserviceable: Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable;injurious; harmful; unserviceable. Shaftesbury.-- Dis*serv"ice*a*ble*ness, n. Norris.-- Dis*serv"ice*a*bly, adv.
dissettle: To unsettle. [Obs.]
dissettlement: The act of unsettling, or the state of being unsettled.Marvell.
dissever: To part in two; to sever thoroughly; to sunder; to disunite; toseparate; to disperse.The storm so dissevered the company . . . that most of therm nevermet again. Sir P. Sidney.States disserved, discordant, belligerent. D. Webster.
disseverance: The act of disserving; separation.
disseveration: The act of disserving; disseverance. [Obs.]
disseverment: Disseverance. Sir W. Scott.
disshadow: To free from shadow or shade. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
dissheathe: To become unsheathed. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
disship: To dismiss from service on board ship. [Obs.] Hakluyt.
disshiver: To shiver or break in pieces. [Obs.]
dissidence: Disagreement; dissent; separation from the establishedreligion. I. Taylor.It is the dissidence of dissent. Burke.
dissident: No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different.Our life and manners be dissident from theirs. Robynson (More'sUtopia).
dissidently: In a dissident manner.
dissilient: Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force;dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp.
dissilition: The act of bursting or springing apart. [R.] Boyle.
dissimilar: Not similar; unlike; heterogeneous; as, the tempers of men areas dissimilar as their features.This part very dissimilar to any other. Boyle.
dissimilarity: Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilitude; variety; as,the dissimilarity of human faces and forms. Sir W. Jones.
dissimilarly: In a dissimilar manner; in a varied style.With verdant shrubs dissimilarly gay. C. Smart.
dissimilate: To render dissimilar.
dissimilation: The act of making dissimilar. H. Sweet.
dissimile: Comparison or illustration by contraries.
dissimilitude: A comparison by contrast; a dissimile.
dissimulate: Feigning; simulating; pretending. [Obs.] Henryson.
dissimulation: The act of dissembling; a hiding under a false appearance;concealment by feigning; false pretension; hypocrisy.Let love be without dissimulation. Rom. xii. 9.Dissimulation . . . when a man lets fall signs and arguments that heis not that he is. Bacon.Simulation is a pretense of what is not, and dissimulation aconcealment of what is. Tatler.
dissimulator: One who dissimulates; a dissembler.
dissimule: To dissemble. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dissimuler: A dissembler. [Obs.]
dissimulour: A dissembler. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dissipable: Capable of being scattered or dissipated. [R.]The heat of those plants is very dissipable. Bacon.
dissipative: Tending to dissipate. Dissipative system (Mech.), an assumedsystem of matter and motions in which forces of friction andresistances of other kinds are introduced without regard to the heator other molecular actions which they generate; -- opposed toconservative system.
dissipativity: The rate at which palpable energy is dissipated away into otherforms of energy.
dissite: Lying apart. [Obs.]Lands far dissite and remote asunder. Holland.
disslander: To slander. [Obs.] Legend of Dido.
disslanderous: Slanderous. [Obs.]
dissociability: Want of sociability; unsociableness. Bp. Warburton.
dissocial: Unfriendly to society; contracted; selfish; as, dissocialfeelings.
dissocialize: To render unsocial.
dissociate: To separate from fellowship or union; to disunite; to disjoin;as, to dissociate the particles of a concrete substance.Before Wyclif's death in 1384, John of Gaunt had openly dissociatedhimself from the reformer. A. W. Ward.
dissociation: The process by which a compound body breaks up into simplerconstituents; -- said particularly of the action of heat on gaseousor volatile substances; as, the dissociation of the sulphurmolecules; the dissociation of ammonium chloride into hydrochloricacid and ammonia.
dissociative: Tending or leading to dissociation.
dissolubility: The quality of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissoluble;capacity of being dissolved by heat or moisture, and converted into afluid.
dissolubleness: The quality of being dissoluble; dissolubility. Boyle.
dissolutely: In a dissolute manner.
dissoluteness: State or quality of being dissolute; looseness of morals andmanners; addictedness to sinful pleasures; debauchery; dissipation.Chivalry had the vices of dissoluteness. Bancroft.
dissolvability: Capacity of being dissolved; solubility. Richardson.
dissolvable: Capable of being dissolved, or separated into component parts;capable of being liquefied; soluble.-- Dis*solv"a*ble*ness, n.Though everything which is compacted be in its own naturedissolvable. Cudworth.Such things as are not dissolvable by the moisture of the tongue. SirI. Newton.
dissolvative: Having the power to dissolve anything; solvent. [Obs.]Frampton.
dissolve: To annul; to rescind; to discharge or release; as, to dissolvean injunction.
dissolvent: Having power to dissolve power to dissolve a solid body; as,the dissolvent juices of the stomach. Ray.
dissolver: One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.Thou kind dissolver of encroaching care. Otway.
dissolving: Melting; breaking up; vanishing.-- Dis*solv"ing*ly, adv. Dissolving view, a picture which grows dimand is gradually replaced by another on the same field; -- an effectproduced by magic lanterns.
dissonancy: Discord; dissonance.
disspirit: See Dispirit.
dissuader: One who dissuades; a dehorter.
dissuasive: Tending to dissuade or divert from a measure or purpose;dehortatory; as, dissuasive advice.-- n.
dissuasory: A dissuasive. [R.]This virtuous and reasonable person, however, has ill luck in all hisdissuasories. Jeffrey.
dissunder: To separate; to sunder; to destroy. [R.] Chapman.
dissweeten: To deprive of sweetness. [R.] Bp. Richardson.
dissyllabic: Consisting of two syllabas, a dissyllabic foot in poetry. B.Jons
dissyllabification: A formi
dissyllabify: To form into two syllables. Ogilvie.
dissyllabize: To form into two syllables; to dyssyllabify.
dissyllable: A word of two syllables; as, pa-per.
dissymmetrical: Not having symmetry; asymmetrical; unsymmetrical.
dissymmetry: Absence or defect of symmetry; asymmetry.
dissympathy: Lack of sympathy; want of interest; indifference. [R.]
distad: Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally.
distain: To tinge with a different color from the natural or proper one;to stain; to discolor; to sully; to tarnish; to defile; -- usedchiefly in poetry. "Distained with dirt and blood." Spenser.[She] hath . . . distained her honorable blood. Spenser.The worthiness of praise distains his worth. Shak.
distally: Toward a distal part.
distance: A space marked out in the last part of a race course.The horse that ran the whole field out of distance. L'Estrange.
distancy: Distance. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
distantial: Distant. [Obs.]More distantial from the eye. W. Montagu.
distantly: At a distance; remotely; with reserve.
distaste: To be distasteful; to taste ill or disagreeable. [Obs.]Dangerous conceits are, in their natures, poisons, Which at the arescarce found to distaste. Shak.
distasteive: Tending to excite distaste. [Obs.] -- n.
distasture: Something which excites distaste or disgust. [Obs.] Speed.
distemper: To mix (colors) in the way of distemper; as, to distempercolors with size. [R.]
distemperance: Distemperature. [Obs.]
distemperately: Unduly. [Obs.]
distemperment: Distempered state; distemperature. [Obs.] Feltham.
distend: To become expanded or inflated; to swell. "His heart distendswith pride." Milton.
distensibility: The quality or capacity of being distensible. [R.]
distensible: Capable of being distended or dilated.
distension: Same as Distention.
distensive: Distending, or capable of being distended.
distent: Distended. [Poetic] Thomson.
dister: To banish or drive from a country. [Obs.] Howell.
disterminate: Separated by bounds. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
distermination: Separation by bounds. [Obs.] Hammond.
disthene: Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequalhardness in two different directions. See Cyanite.
disthrone: To dethrone. [Obs.]
disthronize: To dethrone. [Obs.] Spenser.
distich: A couple of verses or poetic lines making complete sense; anepigram of two verses.
distichously: In a distichous manner.
distil: See Distill.
distillable: Capable of being distilled; especially, capable of beingdistilled without chemical change or decomposition; as, alcohol isdistillable; olive oil is not distillable.
distillate: The product of distillation; as, the distillate from molasses.
distillation: The separation of the volatile parts of a substance from themore fixed; specifically, the operation of driving off gas or vaporfrom volatile liquids or solids, by heat in a retort or still, andthe condensation of the products as far as possible by a coolreceiver, alembic, or condenser; rectification; vaporization;condensation; as, the distillation of illuminating gas and coal, ofalcohol from sour mash, or of boric acid in steam.
distillatory: Belonging to, or used in, distilling; as, distillatory vessels.-- n.
distillment: Distillation; the substance obtained by distillation. [Obs.]Shak.
distinct: To distinguish. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
distinctively: With distinction; plainly.
distinctiveness: State of being distinctive.
distincture: Distinctness. [R.]
distinguishableness: The quality of being distinguishable.
distinguishably: So as to be distinguished.
distinguishedly: In a distinguished manner. [R.] Swift.
distinguishing: Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else;distinctive; peculiar; characteristic.The distinguishing doctrines of our holy religion. Locke.Distinguishing pennant (Naut.), a special pennant by which anyparticular vessel in a fleet is recognized and signaled. Simmonds.
distinguishingly: With distinction; with some mark of preference. Pope.
distinguishment: Observation of difference; distinction. Graunt.
distitle: To deprive of title or right. [R.] B. Jonson.
distoma: A genus of parasitic, trematode worms, having two suckers forattaching themselves to the part they infest. See 1st Fluke,
distort: Distorted; misshapen. [Obs.]Her face was ugly and her mouth distort. Spenser.
distorter: One who, or that which, distorts.
distortion: An unnatural deviation of shape or position of any part of thebody producing visible deformity.
distortive: Causing distortion.
distracted: Mentally disordered; unsettled; mad.My distracted mind. Pope.
distractedly: Disjointedly; madly. Shak.
distractedness: A state of being distracted; distraction. Bp. Hall.
distracter: One who, or that which, distracts away.
distractful: Distracting. [R.] Heywood.
distractible: Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.
distractile: Tending or serving to draw apart.
distracting: Tending or serving to distract.
distractious: Distractive. [Obs.]
distractive: Causing perplexity; distracting. "Distractive thoughts." Bp.Hall.
distrain: To levy a distress.Upon whom I can distrain for debt. Camden.
distrainable: Capable of being, or liable to be, distrained. Blackstone.
distrainer: Same as Distrainor.
distrainor: One who distrains; the party distraining goods or chattels.Blackstone.
distraint: The act or proceeding of seizing personal property by distress.Abbott.
distrait: Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted.
distraughted: Distracted. [Obs.] Spenser.
distream: To flow. [Poetic]Yet o'er that virtuous blush distreams a tear. Shenstone.
distress: To seize for debt; to distrain.
distressedness: A state of being distressed or greatly pained.
distressful: Full of distress; causing, indicating, or attended with,distress; as, a distressful situation. "Some distressful stroke."Shak. "Distressful cries." Pope.-- Dis*tress"ful*ly, adv.
distressing: Causing distress; painful; unpleasant.
distributable: Capable of being distributed. Sir W. Jones.
distributary: Tending to distribute or be distributed; that distributes;distributive.
distribute: To employ (a term) in its whole extent; to take as universal inone premise.A term is said to be distributed when it is taken universal, so as tostand for everything it is capable of being applied to. Whately.
distributer: One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; adispenser. Addison.
distributing: That distributes; dealing out. Distributing past office, anoffice where the mails for a large district are collected to beassorted according to their destination and forwarded.
distribution: A resolving a whole into its parts.
distributional: Of or pertaining to distribution. Huxley.
distributionist: A distributer. [R.] Dickens.
distributive: Assigning the species of a general term.
distributively: By distribution; singly; not collectively; in a distributivemanner.
distributiveness: Quality of being distributive.
district: Rigorous; stringent; harsh. [Obs.]Punishing with the rod of district severity. Foxe.
distriction: Sudden display; flash; glitter. [R.]A smile . . . breaks out with the brightest distriction. Collier.
districtly: Strictly. [Obs.] Foxe.
distringas: A writ commanding the sheriff to distrain a person by his goodsor chattels, to compel a compliance with something required of him.
distrouble: To trouble. [Obs.] Spenser.
distrust: To feel absence of trust in; not to confide in or rely upon; todeem of questionable sufficiency or reality; to doubt; to besuspicious of; to mistrust.Not distrusting my health. 2 Mac. ix. 22.To distrust the justice of your cause. Dryden.He that requireth the oath doth distrust that other. Udall.Of all afraid, Distrusting all, a wise, suspicious maid. Collins.
distruster: One who distrusts.
distrusting: That distrusts; suspicious; lacking confidence in.-- Dis*trust"ing*ly, adv.
distrustless: Free from distrust. Shenstone.
distune: To put out of tune. [Obs.]
disturb: Disturbance. [Obs.] Milton.
disturbance: The hindering or disquieting of a person in the lawful andpeaceable enjoyment of his right; the interruption of a right; as,the disturbance of a franchise, of common, of ways, and the like.Blackstone.
disturbation: Act of disturbing; disturbance. [Obs.] Daniel.
disturber: One who interrupts or incommodes another in the peaceableenjoyment of his right.
disturn: To turn aside. [Obs.] Daniel.
distyle: Having two columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, orthe like. Distyle in antis, having columns between two antæ. SeeAnta.
disulphide: A binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur ineach molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret. Cf. Bisulphide.
disulphuret: See Disulphide.
disulphuric: Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphurin the higher state of oxidation. Disulphuric acid, a thick oilyliquid, H2S2O7, called also Nordhausen acid (from Nordhausen in theHarts, where it was originally manufactured), fuming sulphuric acid,and especially pyrosulphuric acid. See under Pyrosulphuric.
disuniform: Not uniform. [Obs.]
disunionist: An advocate of disunion, specifically, of disunion of theUnited States.
disunite: To part; to fall asunder; to become separated.The joints of the body politic do separate and disunite. South.
disuniter: One who, or that which, disjoins or causes disunion.
disunity: A state of separation or disunion; want of unity. Dr. H. More.
disusage: Gradual cessation of use or custom; neglect of use; disuse.[R.] Hooker.
disuse: Cessation of use, practice, or exercise; inusitation;desuetude; as, the limbs lose their strength by disuse.The disuse of the tongue in the only . . . remedy. Addison.Church discipline then fell into disuse. Southey.
disutilize: To deprive of utility; to render useless. [R.] Mrs. Browning.
disvaluation: Disesteem; depreciation; disrepute. Bacon.
disvalue: To undervalue; to depreciate. Shak.
disvantageous: Disadvantageous. [Obs.] "Disadvantageous ground." Drayton.
disvelop: To develop. [Obs.]
disventure: A disadventure. [Obs.] Shelton.
disvouch: To discredit; to contradict. [Obs.] Shak.
diswarn: To dissuade from by previous warning. [Obs.]
diswitted: Deprived of wits or understanding; distracted. [Obs.] Drayton.
diswont: To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom. [R.] Bp. Hall.
disworkmanship: Bad workmanship. [Obs.] Heywood.
disworship: To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
disworth: To deprive of worth; to degrade. [Obs.] Feltham.
disyoke: To unyoke; to free from a yoke; to disjoin. [Poetic] R.Browning.
dit: To close up. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
ditation: The act of making rich; enrichment. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
ditch: To dig a ditch or ditches. Swift.
ditcher: One who digs ditches.
dite: To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight. [Obs.]His hideous club aloft he dites. Spenser.
diterebene: See Colophene.
ditheism: The doctrine of those who maintain the existence of two gods orof two original principles (as in Manicheism), one good and one evil;dualism.
ditheist: One who holds the doctrine of ditheism; a dualist. Cudworth.
dithionic: Containing two equivalents of sulphur; as, dithionic acid.Dithionic acid (Chem.), an unstable substance, H2S2O6, known only inits solutions, and in certain well-defined salts.
dithyramb: A kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by aband of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poemwritten in a wild irregular strain. Bentley.
dithyrambic: Pertaining to, or resembling, a dithyramb; wild and boisterous."Dithyrambic sallies." Longfellow.-- n.
dithyrambus: See Dithyramb.
dition: Dominion; rule. [Obs.] Evelyn.
ditionary: Under rule; subject; tributary. [Obs.] Chapman.
ditolyl: A white, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C14H14, consistingof two radicals or residues of toluene.
ditone: The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (themodern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone).
ditrichotomous: Dividing into double or treble ramifications; -- said of a leafor stem. [R.] Loudon.
ditrochean: Containing two trochees.
ditrochee: A double trochee; a foot made up of two trochees.
ditroite: An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elæolite, and sodalite.
ditt: See Dit, n.,
dittander: A kind of peppergrass (Lepidium latifolium).
dittied: Set, sung, or composed as a ditty; -- usually in composition.Who, with his soft pipe, and smooth-dittied song. Milton.
ditto: The aforesaid thing; the same (as before). Often contracted todo., or to two "turned commas" ("), or small marks. Used in bills,books of account, tables of names, etc., to save repetition.A spacious table in the center, and a variety of smaller dittos inthe corners. Dickens.
dittology: A double reading, or twofold interpretation, as of a Scripturetext. [R.]
ditty: To sing; to warble a little tune.Beasts fain would sing; birds ditty to their notes. Herbert.
ditty-bag: A sailor's small bag to hold thread, needles, tape, etc.; --also called sailor's housewife.
ditty-box: A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc.
diureide: One of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded ascontaining two molecules of urea or their radicals, as uric acid orallantoin. Cf. Ureide.
diuresis: Free excretion of urine.
diuretic: Tending to increase the secretion and discharge of urine.-- n.
diuretical: Diuretic. [Obs.] Boyle.
diureticalness: The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property.
diurna: A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- socalled because they fly only in the daytime.
diurnal: Opening during the day, and closing at night; -- said offlowers or leaves.
diurnalist: A journalist. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
diurnally: Daily; every day.
diurnalness: The quality of being diurnal.
diurnation: The condition of sleeping or becoming dormant by day, as is thecase of the bats.
diuturnal: Of long continuance; lasting. [R.] Milton.
diuturnity: Long duration; lastingness. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
diva: A prima donna.
divagation: A wandering about or going astray; digression.Let us be set down at Queen's Crawley without further divagation.Thackeray.
divalent: Having two units of combining power; bivalent. Cf. Valence.
divaricate: To divide into two branches; to cause to branch apart.
divaricately: With divarication.
divarication: A divergence of lines of color sculpture, or of fibers atdifferent angles.
divaricator: One of the muscles which open the shell of brachiopods; acardinal muscle. See Illust. of Brachiopoda.
divast: Devastated; laid waste. [Obs.]
divedapper: A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick.
divel: To rend apart. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
divellent: Drawing asunder. [R.]
divellicate: To pull in pieces. [Obs. or R.]
diver: Any bird of certain genera, as Urinator (formerly Colymbus), orthe allied genus Colymbus, or Podiceps, remarkable for their agilityin diving.
diverb: A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted;an antithetical proverb. [Obs.]Italy, a paradise for horses, a hell for women, as the diverb goes.Burton.
diverberate: To strike or sound through. [R.] Davies (Holy Roode).
diverberation: A sounding through.
divergement: Divergence.
divergent: Causing divergence of rays; as, a divergent lens.
diverging: Tending in different directions from a common center; spreadingapart; divergent. Diverging series (Math.), a series whose terms arelarger as the series is extended; a series the sum of whose termsdoes not approach a finite limit when the series is extendedindefinitely; -- opposed to a converging series.
divergingly: In a diverging manner.
diverse: In different directions; diversely.
diverseness: The quality of being diverse.
diversifiability: The quality or capacity of being diversifiable. Earle.
diversifiable: Capable of being diversified or varied. Boyle.
diversified: Distinguished by various forms, or by a variety of aspects orobjects; variegated; as, diversified scenery or landscape.
diversifier: One who, or that which, diversifies.
diversiform: Of a different form; of varied forms.
diversify: To make diverse or various in form or quality; to give varietyto; to variegate; to distinguish by numerous differences or aspects.Separated and diversified on from another. Locke.Its seven colors, that diversify all the face of nature. I. Taylor.
diversiloquent: Speaking in different ways. [R.]
diversion: The act of drawing the attention and force of an enemy from thepoint where the principal attack is to be made; the attack, alarm, orfeint which diverts.
diversivolent: Desiring different things. [Obs.] Webster (White Devil).
diversory: Serving or tending to divert; also, distinguishing. [Obs.]
divert: To turn aside; to digress. [Obs.]I diverted to see one of the prince's palaces. Evelyn.
diverter: One who, or that which, diverts, turns off, or pleases.
divertible: Capable of being diverted.
diverticle: A diverticulum.
diverticular: Pertaining to a diverticulum.
diverticulum: A blind tube branching out of a longer one.
divertimento: ) A light and pleasing composition.
diverting: Amusing; entertaining.-- Di*vert"ing*ly, adv.-- Di*vert"ing*ness, n.
divertise: To divert; to entertain. [Obs.] Dryden.
divertisement: Diversion; amusement; recreation. [R.]
divertissement: A short ballet, or other entertainment, between the acts of aplay. Smart.
divertive: Tending to divert; diverting; amusing; interesting.Things of a pleasant and divertive nature. Rogers.
dives: The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parableof the "Rich Man and Lazarus" (Luke xvi. 19-31). Hence, a name for arich worldling.
divest: See Devest. Mozley & W.
divestible: Capable of being divested.
divestiture: The act of stripping, or depriving; the state of beingdivested; the deprivation, or surrender, of possession of property,rights, etc.
divestment: The act of divesting. [R.]
divesture: Divestiture. [Obs.]
divet: See Divot.
divi-divi: A small tree of tropical America (Cæsalpinia coriaria), whoselegumes contain a large proportion of tannic and gallic acid, and areused by tanners and dyers.
dividant: Different; distinct. [Obs.] Shak.
divide: To subject to arithmetical division.
divided: Cut into distinct parts, by incisions which reach the midrib; -- said of a leaf.
dividedly: Separately; in a divided manner.
dividend: A number or quantity which is to be divided.
divident: Dividend; share. [Obs.] Foxe.
divider: An instrument for dividing lines, describing circles, etc.,compasses. See Compasses.
dividing: That divides; separating; marking divisions; graduating.Dividing engine, a machine for graduating circles (as forastronomical instruments) or bars (as for scales); also, for spacingoff and cutting teeth in wheels.-- Dividing sinker. (Knitting Mach.). See under Sinker.
dividingly: By division.
dividual: Divided, shared, or participated in, in common with others.[R.] Milton.
dividually: By dividing. [R.]
dividuous: Divided; dividual. [R.]He so often substantiates distinctions into dividuous,selfsubsistent. Coleridge.
divinator: One who practices or pretends to divination; a diviner. [R.]Burton.
divinatory: Professing, or relating to, divination. "A natural divinatoryinstinct." Cowley.
divinement: Divination. [Obs.]
divineness: The quality of being divine; superhuman or supreme excellence.Shak.
divineress: A woman who divines. Dryden.
diving: That dives or is used or diving. Diving beetle (Zoöl.), anybeetle of the family Dytiscidæ, which habitually lives under water; -- called also water tiger.-- Diving bell, a hollow inverted vessel, sometimes bell-shaped, inwhich men may descend and work under water, respiration beingsustained by the compressed air at the top, by fresh air pumped inthrough a tube from above.-- Diving dress. See Submarine armor, under Submarine.-- Diving stone, a kind of jasper.
divinify: To render divine; to deify. [Obs.] "Blessed and divinifiedsoul." Parth. Sacra (1633).
divining: That divines; for divining. Divining rod, a rod, commonly ofwitch hazel, with forked branches, used by those who pretend todiscover water or metals under ground.
diviningly: In a divining manner.
divinistre: A diviner. [Obs.] " I am no divinistre." Chaucer.
divinity calf: Calf stained dark brown and worked without gilding, often usedfor theological books.
divinization: A making divine. M. Arnold.
divinize: To invest with a divine character; to deify. [R.] M. Arnold.Man had divinized all those objects of awe. Milman.
divisibility: The quality of being divisible; the property of bodies by whichtheir parts are capable of separation.Divisibility . . . is a primary attribute of matter. Sir W. Hamilton.
divisible: Capable of being divided or separated.Extended substance . . . is divisible into parts. Sir W. Hamilton.Divisible contract (Law), a contract containing agreements one ofwhich can be separated from the other.-- Divisible offense (Law), an offense containing a lesser offensein one of a greater grade, so that on the latter there can be anacquittal, while on the former there can be a conviction.-- Di*vis"i*ble*ness, n.-- Di*vis"i*bly, adv.
division: The process of finding how many times one number or quantity iscontained in another; the reverse of multiplication; also, the ruleby which the operation is performed.
divisional: That divides; pas, a divisional line; a divisional general; adivisional surgeon of police. Divisional planes (Geol.), planes ofseparation between rock masses. They include joints.
divisionally: So as to be divisional.
divisionary: Divisional.
divisionor: One who divides or makes division. [Obs.] Sheldon.
divisor: The number by which the dividend is divided. Common divisor.(Math.) See under Common, a.
divorceable: Capable of being divorced.
divorcee: A person divorced.
divorceless: Incapable of being divorced or separated; free from divorce.
divorcement: Dissolution of the marriage tie; divorce; separation.Let him write her a divorcement. Deut. xxiv. 1.The divorcement of our written from our spoken language. R. Morris.
divorcer: The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce.Drummond.
divorcible: Divorceable. Milton.
divorcive: Having power to divorce; tending to divorce. "This divorcivelaw." Milton.
divot: A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also forfuel. [Scot.] Simmonds.
divulgate: Published. [Obs.] Bale.
divulgater: A divulger. [R.]
divulgation: The act of divulging or publishing. [R.]Secrecy hath no use than divulgation. Bp. Hall.
divulge: To become publicly known. [R.] "To keep it from divulging."Shak.
divulsive: Tending to pull asunder, tear, or rend; distracting.
dixie: A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the UnitedStates, esp. during the Civil War. [U.S.]
dizz: To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle. [Obs.] Gayton.
dizzard: A blockhead. [Obs.] [Written also dizard, and disard.] --Diz"zard*ly, adv. [Obs.]
dizzily: In a dizzy manner or state.
dizziness: Giddiness; a whirling sensation in the head; vertigo.
dizzy: To make dizzy or giddy; to give the vertigo to; to confuse.If the jangling of thy bells had not dizzied thy understanding. SirW. Scott.
djinnee: See Jinnee, Jinn.
do: A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonicscale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio. It is the firstof the seven syllables used by the Italians as manes of musicaltones, and replaced, for the sake of euphony, the syllable Ut,applied to the note C. In England and America the same syllables areused by mane as a scale pattern, while the tones in respect toabsolute pitch are named from the first seven letters of thealphabet.
do-all: General manager; factotum.Under him, Dunstan was the do-all at court, being the king'streasurer, councilor, chancellor, confessor, all things. Fuller.
do-little: One who performs little though professing much. [Colloq.]Great talkers are commonly dolittles. Bp. Richardson.
do-naught: A lazy, good-for-nothing fellow.
do-nothing: Doing nothing; inactive; idle; lazy; as, a do-nothing policy.
doab: A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, thedoab between the Ganges and the Jumna. [India] Am. Cyc.
doable: Capable of being done. Carlyle.
doand: Doing. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
doat: See Dote.
dobber: See Dabchick.
dobby: An apparatus resembling a Jacquard for weaving small figures(usually about 12 - 16 threads, seldom more than 36 - 40 threads).
dobchick: See Dabchick.
dobson: The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydaluscornutus), used as bait in angling. See Hellgamite.
dobule: The European dace.
docent: Serving to instruct; teaching. [Obs.]
docetae: Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely aphantom or appearance.
docetic: Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetæ. "DoceticGnosticism." Plumptre.
docetism: The doctrine of the Docetæ.
dochmiac: Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius.
dochmius: A foot of five syllables (usually
docible: Easily taught or managed; teachable. Milton.
docimacy: The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature,quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or offacts pertaining to physiology.
docimastic: Proving by experiments or tests. Docimastic art, metallurgy, orthe art of assaying metals; the art of separating metals from foreignmatters, and determining the nature and quantity of metallicsubstances contained in any ore or mineral.
docimology: A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc.
docity: Teachableness. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U. S.]
dock: A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-knownweeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination.
dock-cress: Nipplewort.
dockage: A charge for the use of a dock.
dockyard: A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores andtimber for shipbuilding.
docoglossa: An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and havingthe teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon.
docquet: See Docket.
doctor: The friar skate. [Prov. Eng.] Doctors' Commons. See underCommons.-- Doctor's stuff, physic, medicine. G. Eliot.-- Doctor fish (Zoöl.), any fish of the genus Acanthurus; thesurgeon fish; -- so called from a sharp lancetlike spine on each sideof the tail. Also called barber fish. See Surgeon fish.
doctoral: Of or relating to a doctor, or to the degree of doctor.Doctoral habit and square cap. Wood.
doctorally: In the manner of a doctor.[R.]
doctorate: The degree, title, or rank, of a doctor.
doctoress: A female doctor.[R.]
doctorly: Like a doctor or learned man. [Obs.] "Doctorly prelates." Foxe.
doctorship: Doctorate. [R.] Clarendon.
doctress: A female doctor. [R.]
doctrinable: Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine. [Obs.] Sir P.Sidney.
doctrinaire: One who would apply to political or other practical concernsthe abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophicalsystem; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist.Used also adjectively; as, doctrinaire notions.
doctrinal: A matter of doctrine; also, a system of doctrines. T. Goodwin.Sir T. Elyot.
doctrinally: In a doctrinal manner or for; by way of teaching or positivedirection.
doctrinarian: A doctrinaire. J. H. Newman.
doctrinarianism: The principles or practices of the Doctrinaires.
documentary: Pertaining to written evidence; contained or certified inwriting. "Documentary evidence." Macaulay.
doddart: A game much like hockey, played in an open field; also, the,bent stick for playing the game. [Local, Eng.] Halliwell.
dodded: Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, doddedcorn. Halliwell.
dodder: A plant of the genus Cuscuta. It is a leafless parasitical vinewith yellowish threadlike stems. It attaches itself to some otherplant, as to flax, goldenrod, etc., and decaying at the root. isnourished by the plant that supports it.
doddered: Shattered; infirm. "A laurel grew, doddered with age." Dryden.
dodecagon: A figure or polygon bounded by twelve sides and containingtwelve angles.
dodecagynia: A Linnæan order of plants having twelve styles.
dodecahedral: Pertaining to, or like, a dodecahedion; consisting of twelveequal sides. Dodecahedral cleavage. See under Cleavage.
dodecahedron: A solid having twelve faces.
dodecandria: A Linnæan class of plants including all that have any number ofstamens between twelve and nineteen.
dodecane: Any one of a group of thick oily hydrocarbons, C12H26, of theparaffin series.
dodecastyle: Having twelve columns in front.-- n.
dodecasyllabic: Having twelve syllables.
dodecasyllable: A word consisting of twelve syllables.
dodecatemory: A tern applied to the twelve houses, or parts, of the zodiac ofthe primum mobile, to distinguish them from the twelve signs; also,any one of the twelve signs of the zodiac.
dodge: The act of evading by some skillful movement; a sudden startingaside; hence, an artful device to evade, deceive, or cheat; a cunningtrick; an artifice. [Colloq.]Some, who have a taste for good living, have many harmless arts, bywhich they improve their banquet, and innocent dodges, if we may bepermitted to use an excellent phrase that has become vernacular sincethe appearance of the last dictionaries. Thackeray.
dodgery: trickery; artifice. [Obs.] Hacket.
dodkin: A doit; a small coin. Shelton.
dodman: Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster. [Prov. Eng.]
dodo: A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting theIsland of Mauritius. It had short, half-fledged wings, like those ofthe ostrich, and a short neck and legs; -- called also dronte. It wasrelated to the pigeons.
doe: A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of thefallow deer, of which the male is called a buck. Also applied to thefemale of other animals, as the rabbit. See the Note under Buck.
doeglic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the doegling; as, doeglic acid(Chem.), an oily substance resembling oleic acid.
doegling: The beaked whale (Balænoptera rostrata), from which doeglingoil is obtained.
doer: An agent or attorney; a factor. Burrill.
does: The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.
doff: To put off dress; to take off the hat.
doffer: A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in acarding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from thecards. Ure.
dog: A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C.familiaris).
dog bee: A male or drone bee. Halliwell.
dog days: A period of from four to six weeks, in the summer, variouslyplaced by almanac makers between the early part of July and the earlypart of September; canicular days; -- so called in reference to therising in ancient times of the Dog Star (Sirius) with the sun.Popularly, the sultry, close part of the summer.
dog fancier: One who has an unusual fancy for, or interest in, dogs; also,one who deals in dogs.
dog star: Sirius, a star of the constellation Canis Major, or the GreaterDog, and the brightest star in the heavens; -- called also Canicula,and, in astronomical charts, a Canis Majoris. See Dog days.
dog-brier: The dog-rose.
dog-eared: Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled bycareless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book.Statute books before unopened, not dog-eared. Ld. Mansfield.
dog-faced: Having a face resembling that of a dog. Dog-faced baboon(Zoöl.), any baboon of the genus Cynocephalus. See Drill.
dog-headed: Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certainbaboons.
dog-hearted: Inhuman; cruel. Shak.
dog-legged: Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straightportions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and runningin opposite directions without an intervening wellhole.
dog-rose: A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers.
dog-weary: Extremely weary. Shak.
dogal: Of or pertaining to a doge.[R.]
dogate: The office or dignity of a doge.
dogbane: A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonousmilky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs.
dogberry: The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry. Dr. Prior.Dogberry tree (Bot.), the dogwood.
dogbolt: The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon.Knight.
dogcart: A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patternedafter a cart. The original dogcarts used in England by sportsmen hada box at the back for carrying dogs.
dogdraw: The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog. Cowell.
doge: The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.
dogeate: Dogate. Wright.
dogeless: Without a doge. Byron.
doggedly: In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution.
dogger: A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch.
doggerel: Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes.This may well be rhyme doggerel, quod he. Chaucer.
doggerman: A sailor belonging to a dogger.
dogget: Docket. See Docket. [Obs.]
doggish: Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish;growling; brutal.-- Dog"*gish*ly, adv.-- Dog"gish*ness, n.
doggrel: Same as Doggerel.
doghole: A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation orapartment. Dryden.
dogmatic: One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by generalprinciples; -- opposed to the Empiric.
dogmatically: In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially.
dogmaticalness: The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness.
dogmatician: A dogmatist.
dogmatics: The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology.
dogmatism: The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance orpositiveness in stating opinion.The self-importance of his demeanor, and the dogmatism of hisconversation. Sir W. Scott.
dogmatist: One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold andarrogant advancer of principles.I expect but little success of all this upon the dogmatist; hisopinioned assurance is paramount to argument. Glanvill.
dogmatize: To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold andundue confidence; to advance with arrogance.The pride of dogmatizing schools. Blackmore.
dogmatizer: One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher.Hammond.
dogship: The character, or individuality, of a dog.
dogshore: One of several shores used to hold a ship firmly and preventher moving while the blocks are knocked away before launching.
dogsick: Sick as a dog sometimes is very sick. [Colloq.]
dogskin: The skin of a dog, or leather made of the skin. Also usedadjectively.
dogsleep: The fitful naps taken when all hands are kept up by stress.
dogtie: A cramp.
dogtooth: An ornament common in Gothic architecture, consisting ofpointed projections resembling teeth; -- also called tooth ornament.Dogtooth spar (Min.), a variety of calcite, in acute crystals,resembling the tooth of a dog. See Calcite.-- Dogtooth violet (Bot.), a small, bulbous herb of the Lily family(genus Erythronium). It has two shining flat leaves and commonly onelarge flower. [Written also dog's-tooth violet.]
dogtrick: A gentle trot, like that of a dog.
dogvane: A small vane of bunting, feathers, or any other light material,carried at the masthead to indicate the direction of the wind.Totten.
dogwatch: A half watch; a watch of two hours, of which there are two, thefirst dogwatch from 4 to 6 o'clock, p.m., and the second dogwatchfrom 6 to 8 o'clock, P. M. Totten.
dogwood: The Cornus, a genus of large shrubs or small trees, the wood ofwhich is exceedingly hard, and serviceable for many purposes.
dohtren: Daughters. [Obs.]
doing: Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in theplural, conduct; behavior. See Do.To render an account of his doings. Barrow.
doitkin: A very small coin; a doit.
dokimastic: Docimastic.
doko: See Lepidosiren.
dolabra: A rude ancient ax or hatchet, seen in museums.
dolabriform: Shaped like the head of an ax or hatchet, as some leaves, andalso certain organs of some shellfish.
doldrums: A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms,squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent allprogress for weeks; -- so called by sailors. To be in the doldrums,to be in a state of listlessness ennui, or tedium.
dole: grief; sorrow; lamentation. [Archaic]And she died. So that day there was dole in Astolat. Tennyson.
doleful: Full of dole or grief; expressing or exciting sorrow;sorrowful; sad; dismal.With screwed face and doleful whine. South.Regions of sorrow, doleful shades. Milton.
dolent: Sorrowful. [Obs.] Ford.
dolente: Plaintively. See Doloroso.
dolerite: A dark-colored, basic, igneous rock, composed essentially ofpyroxene and a triclinic feldspar with magnetic iron. By many authorsit is considered equivalent to a coarse-grained basalt.
doleritic: Of the nature of dolerite; as, much lava is doleritic lava.Dana.
dolesome: Doleful; dismal; gloomy; sorrowful.-- Dole"some*ly, adv.-- Dole"some*ness, n.
dolf: of Delve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dolioform: Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form.
doliolum: A genus of freeswimming oceanic tunicates, allied to Salpa, andhaving alternate generations.
dolium: A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridgeshell and tun shells.
doll: A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.
dollardee: A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the UnitedStates; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream.
dollman: See Dolman.
dolly: A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch,and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer.
dolmen: A cromlech. See Cromlech. [Written also tolmen.]
dolomite: A mineral consisting of the carbonate of lime and magnesia invarying proportions. It occurs in distinct crystals, and in extensivebeds as a compact limestone, often crystalline granular, either whiteor clouded. It includes much of the common white marble. Also calledbitter spar.
dolomitic: Pertaining to dolomite.
dolomize: To convert into dolomite.-- Dol`o*mi*za"tion, n.
dolor: Pain; grief; distress; anguish. [Written also dolour.] [Poetic]Of death and dolor telling sad tidings. Spenser.
doloriferous: Producing pain. Whitaker.
doloroso: Plaintive; pathetic; -- used adverbially as a musicaldirection.
dolphin: A mass of iron or lead hung from the yardarm, in readiness tobe dropped on the deck of an enemy's vessel.
dolphinet: A female dolphin. [R.] Spenser.
dolt: A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus;a dunce; a dullard.This Puck seems but a dreaming dolt. Drayton.
doltish: Doltlike; dull in intellect; stupid; blockish; as, a doltishclown.-- Dolt"ish*ly, adv.-- Dolt"ish*ness, n.
dolus: Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa.Wharton.
dolven: of Delve. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
domable: Capable of being tamed; tamable.
domableness: Tamableness.
domain: Ownership of land; an estate or patrimony which one has in hisown right; absolute proprietorship; paramount or sovereign ownership.Public domain, the territory belonging to a State or to the generalgovernment; public lands. [U.S.]in the public domain may be used byanyone wihout restriction.-- Right of eminent domain, that superior dominion of the sovereignpower over all the property within the state, including thatpreviously granted by itself, which authorizes it to appropriate anypart thereof to a necessary public use, reasonable compensation beingmade.
domal: Pertaining to a house. Addison.
domanial: Of or relating to a domain or to domains.
dome: A cupola formed on a large scale.
domebook: A book said to have been compiled under the direction of KingAlfred. It is supposed to have contained the principal maxims of thecommon law, the penalties for misdemeanors, and the forms of judicialproceedings. Domebook was probably a general name for book ofjudgments. Burrill.
domed: Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome.
domesday: A day of judgment. See Doomsday. [Obs.] Domesday Book, theancient record of the survey of most of the lands of England, made byorder of William the Conqueror, about 1086. It consists of twovolumes, a large folio and a quarto, and gives the proprietors'tenures, arable land, woodland, etc. [Written also Doomsday Book.]
domesman: A judge; an umpire. [Obs.]
domestic: Articles of home manufacture, especially cotton goods. [U. S.]
domestical: Domestic. [Obs.]Our private and domestical matter. Sir. P. Sidney.
domestically: In a domestic manner; privately; with reference to domesticaffairs.
domesticant: Forming part of the same family. [Obs.] Sir E. Dering.
domestication: The act of domesticating, or accustoming to home; the action oftaming wild animals.
domesticator: One who domesticates.
domesticity: The state of being domestic; domestic character; householdlife.
domett: A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weftwoolen. Blakely.
domeykite: A massive mineral of tin-white or steel-gray color, an arsenideof copper.
domical: Relating to, or shaped like, a dome.
domicile: A residence at a particular place accompanied with an intentionto remain there for an unlimited time; a residence accepted as afinal abode. Wharton.
domiciliar: A member of a household; a domestic.
domiciliary: Of or pertaining to a domicile, or the residence of a person orfamily.The personal and domiciliary rights of the citizen scrupulouslyguarded. Motley.Domiciliary visit (Law), a visit to a private dwelling, particularlyfor searching it, under authority.
domiciliation: The act of domiciliating; permanent residence; inhabitancy.Milman.
domiculture: The art of house-keeping, cookery, etc. [R.] R. Park.
domify: To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, inastrological sense. [Obs.]
domina: Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies whoheld a barony in their own right. Burrill.
dominant: Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant; as,the dominant party, church, spirit, power.The member of a dominant race is, in his dealings with the subjectrace, seldom indeed fraudulent, . . . but imperious, insolent, andcruel. Macaulay.Dominant estate or tenement (Law), the estate to which a servitude oreasement is due from another estate, the estate over which theservitude extends being called the servient estate or tenement.Bouvier. Wharton's Law Dict.-- Dominant owner (Law), one who owns lands on which there is aneasement owned by another.
dominate: To predominate over; to rule; to govern. "A city dominated bythe ax." Dickens.We everywhere meet with Slavonian nations either dominant ordominated. W. Tooke.
domination: A high order of angels in the celestial hierarchy; -- a meaninggiven by the schoolmen.Thrones, dominations, princedoms, virtues, powers. Milton.
dominative: Governing; ruling; imperious. Sir E. Sandys.
dominator: A ruler or ruling power. "Sole dominator of Navarre." Shak.Jupiter and Mars are dominators for this northwest part of the world.Camden.
domine: A West Indian fish (Epinula magistralis), of the familyTrichiuridæ. It is a long-bodied, voracious fish.
domineer: To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master;to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscioussuperiority or haughtiness; -- often with over; as, to domineer overdependents.Go to the feast, revel and domineer. Shak.His wishes tend abroad to roam, And hers to domineer at home. Prior.
domineering: Ruling arrogantly; overbearing.A violent, brutal, domineering old reprobate. Blackw. Mag.
dominical: The Lord's day or Sunday; also, the Lord's prayer. [Obs.]
dominican: Of or pertaining to St. Dominic (Dominic de Guzman), or to thereligions communities named from him. Dominican nuns, an order ofnuns founded by St. Dominic, and chiefly employed in teaching.-- Dominican tertiaries (the third order of St. Dominic). SeeTertiary.
dominion: A supposed high order of angels; dominations. See Domination,3. Milton.By him were all things created . . . whether they be thrones, ordominions, or principalities, or powers. Col. i. 16.
dominion day: In Canada, a legal holiday, July lst, being the anniversary ofthe proclamation of the formation of the Dominion in 1867.
domino: A game played by two or more persons, with twenty-eight piecesof wood, bone, or ivory, of a flat, oblong shape, plain at the back,but on the face divided by a line in the middle, and either leftblank or variously dotted after the manner of dice. The game isplayed by matching the spots or the blank of an unmatched half of adomino already played Hoyle.
domino whist: A game of cards in which the suits are played in sequence,beginning with a 5 or 9, the player who gets rid of his cards firstbeing the winner.
dominus: Master; sir; -- a title of respect formerly applied to a knightor a clergyman, and sometimes to the lord of a manor. Cowell.
domitable: That can be tamed. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
domite: A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de-Dôme in Auvergne, France, where it is found.
don: To put on; to dress in; to invest one's self with.Should I don this robe and trouble you. Shak.At night, or in the rain, He dons a surcoat which he doffs at morn.Emerson.
donable: Capable of being donated or given. [R.]
donary: A thing given to a sacred use. [R.] Burton.
donat: A grammar. [Obs.] [Written also donet.]
donatary: See Donatory.
donate: To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousanddollars to a college.
donation: The act or contract by which a person voluntarily transfers thetitle to a thing of which be is the owner, from himself to another,without any consideration, as a free gift. Bouvier. Donation party, aparty assembled at the house of some one, as of a clergyman, each onebringing some present. [U.S.] Bartlett.
donatism: The tenets of the Donatists.
donatist: A follower of Donatus, the leader of a body of North Africanschismatics and purists, who greatly disturbed the church in the 4thcentury. They claimed to be the true church.
donatistic: Pertaining to Donatism.
donative: A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron,without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, orinduction by his orders. See the Note under Benefice, n.,
donator: One who makes a gift; a donor; a giver.
donatory: A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition,escheated property is made over.
donax: A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used forfishing rods, etc.
doncella: A handsome fish of Florida and the West Indies (Platyglossusradiatus). The name is applied also to the ladyfish (Harpe rufa) ofthe same region.
done: p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive.
donee: Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one towhom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one onwhom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called theappointor.
donet: Same as Donat. Piers Plowman.
doni: A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used fortrading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon. [Writtenalso dhony, doney, and done.]
doniferous: Bearing gifts. [R.]
donjon: The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower inancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications.See Illust. of Castle.
donna: A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.
donnat: See Do-naught. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
donnee: Lit., given; hence, in a literary work, as a drama or tale,that which is assumed as to characters, situation, etc., as a basisfor the plot or story.  W. E. Henley.
donnism: Self-importance; loftiness of carriage. [Cant, Eng.Universities]
donor: One who grants an estate; in later use, one who confers apower; -- the opposite of donee. Kent.Touching, the parties unto deeds and charters, we are to consider aswell the donors and granters as the donees or grantees. Spelman.
donship: The quality or rank of a don, gentleman, or knight. Hudibras.
donzel: A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page. [Obs.] Beau. &Fl.
doo: A dove. [Scot.]
doob grass: A perennial, creeping grass (Cynodon dactylon), highly prized,in Hindostan, as food for cattle, and acclimated in the UnitedStates. [Written also doub grass.]
doodle: A trifler; a simple fellow.
doodlesack: The Scotch bagpipe. [Prov. Eng.]
doole: Sorrow; dole. [Obs.] Spenser.
dooly: A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carryingpersons or things; a palanquin. [Written also doolee and doolie.][East Indies]Having provided doolies, or little bamboo chairs slung on four men'sshoulders, in which I put my papers and boxes, we next morningcommenced the ascent. J. D. Hooker.
doom palm: A species of palm tree (Hyphæne Thebaica), highly valued forthe fibrous pulp of its fruit, which has the flavor of gingerbread,and is largely eaten in Egypt and Abyssinia. [Written also doumpalm.]
doomage: A penalty or fine for neglect. [Local, New England]
doomful: Full of condemnation or destructive power. [R.] "That doomfuldeluge." Drayton.
doomsman: A judge; an umpire. [Obs.] Hampole.
doomster: Same as Dempster. [Scot.]
doorcase: The surrounding frame into which a door shuts.
doorcheek: The jamb or sidepiece of a door. Ex. xii. 22 (Douay version).
doorga: A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with tenarms. [Written also Durga.] Malcom.
dooring: The frame of a door. Milton.
doorkeeper: One who guards the entrance of a house or apartment; a porter;a janitor.
doorless: Without a door.
doornail: The nail or knob on which in ancient doors the knocker struck;-- hence the old saying, "As dead as a doornail."
doorplane: A plane on a door, giving the name, and sometimes theemployment, of the occupant.
doorpost: The jamb or sidepiece of a doorway.
doorsill: The sill or threshold of a door.
doorstead: Entrance or place of a door. [Obs. or Local] Bp. Warburton.
doorstep: The stone or plank forming a step before an outer door.
doorstone: The stone forming a threshold.
doorstop: The block or strip of wood or similar material which stops, atthe right place, the shutting of a door.
doorway: The passage of a door; entrance way into a house or a room.
dooryard: A yard in front of a house or around the door of a house.
dop: To dip. [Obs.] Walton.
dope-book: A chart of previous performances, etc., of race horses. [Race-track Slang]
dopey: Affected by "dope"; esp., sluggish or dull as though under theinfluence of a narcotic. [Slang]
doppelganger: A spiritual or ghostly double or counterpart; esp., anapparitional double of a living person; a cowalker.
dopper: An Anabaptist or Baptist. [Contemptuous] B. Jonson.
dopplerite: A brownish black native hydrocarbon occurring in elastic orjellylike masses.
doquet: A warrant. See Docket.
dor: A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius),which makes a droning noise while flying. The name is also applied toallied American species, as the June bug. Called also dorr,dorbeetle, or dorrbeetle, dorbug, dorrfly, and buzzard clock.
dorado: A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of theecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish.
dorbeetle: See 1st Dor.
doree: A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. SeeIllust. of John Doree.
doretree: A doorpost. [Obs.] "As dead as a doretree." Piers Plowman.
dorhawk: The European goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dorbeetle. See Goatsucker. [Written also dorrhawk.] Booth.
dorian: Same as Doric, 3. "Dorian mood." Milton. Dorian mode (Mus.),the first of the authentic church modes or tones, from D to D,resembling our D minor scale, but with the B natural. Grove.
doric: Belonging to, or resembling, the oldest and simplest of thethree orders of architecture used by the Greeks, but ranked as secondof the five orders adopted by the Romans. See Abacus, Capital, Order.
doricism: A Doric phrase or idiom.
doris: A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchi¯n the back.
dorism: A Doric phrase or idiom.
dorking fowl: One of a breed of large-bodied domestic fowls, having fivetoes, or the hind toe double. There are several strains, as thewhite, gray, and silver-gray. They are highly esteemed for the table.
dormancy: The state of being dormant; quiescence; abeyance.
dormant: In a sleeping posture; as, a lion dormant; -- distinguishedfrom couchant. Dormant partner (Com.), a partner who takes no sharein the active business of a company or partnership, but is entitledto a share of the profits, and subject to a share in losses; --called also sleeping or silent partner.-- Dormant window (Arch.), a dormer window. See Dormer.-- Table dormant, a stationary table. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dormitive: Causing sleep; as, the dormitive properties of opium. Clarke.-- n. (Med.)
dormouse: A small European rodent of the genus Myoxus, of severalspecies. They live in trees and feed on nuts, acorns, etc.; -- socalled because they are usually torpid in winter.
dormy: Up, or ahead, as many holes as remain to be played; -- said ofa player or side.
dorn: A British ray; the thornback.
dorp: A hamlet. "A mean fishing dorp." Howell.
dorr: The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor. Robynson(More's Utopia).
dorrfly: See 1st Dor.
dorrhawk: See Dorhawk.
dorsad: Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally.
dorsal: Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of ananimal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsalfin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed toventral.
dorsale: Same as Dorsal, n.
dorsally: On, or toward, the dorsum, or back; on the dorsal side of;dorsad.
dorse: The Baltic or variable cod (Gadus callarias), by some believedto be the young of the common codfish.
dorser: See Dosser.
dorsibranchiata: A division of chætopod annelids in which the branchiæ are alongthe back, on each side, or on the parapodia. [See Illusts. underAnnelida and Chætopoda.]
dorsibranchiate: Having branchiæ along the back; belonging to theDorsibranchiata.-- n.
dorsiferous: Bearing, or producing, on the back; -- applied to ferns whichproduce seeds on the back of the leaf, and to certain Batrachia, theova of which become attached to the skin of the back of the parent,where they develop; dorsiparous.
dorsimeson: (Anat.) See Meson.
dorsiparous: Same as Dorsiferous.
dorsiventral: Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most commonleaves. The leaves of the iris are not dorsiventral.
dorsoventral: From the dorsal to the ventral side of an animal; as, thedorsoventral axis.
dorsum: The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of anappendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue.
dory: A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree.
doryphora: A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle.See Potato beetle.
doryphoros: A spear bearer; a statue of a man holding a spear or in theattitude of a spear bearer. Several important sculptures of thissubject existed in antiquity, copies of which remain to us.
dos--dos: Back to back; as, to sit dos-à-dos in a dogcart; to dance dos-à-dos, or so that two dancers move forward and pass back to back.
dosage: The administration of medicine in doses; specif., a scheme orsystem of grading doses of medicine according to age, etc.
dosel: Same as Dorsal, n. [R.]
dosimetry: Measurement of doses; specif., a system of therapeutics whichuses but few remedies, mostly alkaloids, and gives them in dosesfixed by certain rules. --Do`si*met"ric (#), a. --Do*sim"e*trist (#),n.
dosology: Posology. [R.] Ogilvie.
doss: A place to sleep in; a bed; hence, sleep. [Slang]
doss house: A cheap lodging house.
dossel: Same as Dorsal, n.
dossier: A bundle containing the papers in reference to some matter.
dossil: A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, forkeeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent.
dost: of Do.
dot: A marriage portion; dowry. [Louisiana]
dotal: Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion;constituting dower, or comprised in it. Garth.
dotant: A dotard. [Obs.] Shak.
dotard: One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood.The sickly dotard wants a wife. Prior.
dotardly: Foolish; weak. Dr. H. More.
dotary: A dotard's weakness; dotage. [Obs.] Drayton.
dote: Natural endowments. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
dotehead: A dotard. [R.] Tyndale.
dotery: The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel. [R.]
doth: of Do.
doting: That dotes; silly; excessively fond.-- Dot"ing*ly, adv.-- Dot"ing*ness, n.
dotish: Foolish; weak; imbecile. Sir W. Scott.
dottard: An old, decayed tree. [R.] Bacon.
dotted: Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified withsmall, detached objects. Dotted note (Mus.), a note followed by a dotto indicate an increase of length equal to one half of its simplevalue; thus, a dotted semibreve is equal to three minims, and adotted quarter to three eighth notes.-- Dotted rest, a rest lengthened by a dot in the same manner as adotted note.
dotterel: Decayed. "Some old dotterel trees." [Obs.] Ascham.
dotting pen: See under Pun.
dottrel: See Dotterel.
doty: Half-rotten; as, doty timber. [Local, U. S.]
douane: A customhouse.
douanier: An officer of the French customs. [Anglicized form douaneer.]
douar: A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.
douay bible: A translation of the Scriptures into the English language forthe use of English-speaking Roman Catholics; -- done from the LatinVulgate by English scholars resident in France. The New Testamentportion was published at Rheims, A. D. 1582, the Old Testament atDouai, A. D. 1609-10. Various revised editions have since beenpublished. [Written also Doway Bible. Called also the Rheims andDouay version.]
doub grass: Doob grass.
double: Having the petals in a flower considerably increased beyond thenatural number, usually as the result of cultivation and the expenseof the stamens, or stamens and pistils. The white water lily and someother plants have their blossoms naturally double.
double dealer: One who practices double dealing; a deceitful, trickish person.L'Estrange.
double dealing: False or deceitful dealing. See Double dealing, under Dealing.Shak.
double pedro: Cinch (the game).
double-acting: Acting or operating in two directions or with both motions;producing a twofold result; as, a double-acting engine or pump.
double-bank: To row by rowers sitting side by side in twos on a bank orthwart. To double-bank an oar, to set two men to pulling one oar.
double-banked: Applied to a kind of rowing in which the rowers sit side byside in twos, a pair of oars being worked from each bank or thwart.
double-beat valve: See under Valve.
double-breasted: Folding or lapping over on the breast, with a row of buttonsand buttonholes on each side; as, a double-breasted coat.
double-decker: A man-of-war having two gun decks.
double-dye: To dye again or twice over.To double-dye their robes in scarlet. J. Webster.
double-dyed: Dyed twice; thoroughly or intensely colored; hence; firmlyfixed in opinions or habits; as, a double-dyed villain.
double-ender: A locomotive with pilot at each end. Knight.
double-entendre: A word or expression admitting of a double interpretation, oneof which is often obscure or indelicate.
double-eyed: Having a deceitful look. [R.] "Deceitful meanings is double-eyed." Spenser.
double-headed: Having two heads; bicipital. Double-headed rail (Railroad), arail whose flanges are duplicates, so that when one is worn the othermay be turned uppermost.
double-hung: Having both sashes hung with weights and cords; -- said of awindow.
double-lock: To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security. Tatler.
double-milled: Twice milled or fulled, to render more compact or fine; -- saidof cloth; as, double-milled kerseymere.
double-quick: Of, or performed in, the fastest time or step in marching, nextto the run; as, a double-quick step or march.
double-ripper: A kind of coasting sled, made of two sleds fastened togetherwith a board, one before the other. [Local, U. S.]
double-shade: To double the natural darkness of (a place). Milton.
double-surfaced: Having two surfaces; -- said specif. of aëroplane wings oraërocurves which are covered on both sides with fabric, etc., thuscompletely inclosing their frames.
double-tongue: Deceit; duplicity.Now cometh the sin of double-tongue, such as speak fair before folkand wickedly behind. Chaucer.
double-tongued: Making contrary declarations on the same subject; deceitful.Likewise must the deacons be grave, not double-tongued. 1 Tim. iii.8.
double-tonguing: A peculiar action of the tongue by flute players inarticulating staccato notes; also, the rapid repetition of notes incornet playing.
doubleganger: An apparition or double of a living person; a doppelgänger.
doublehearted: Having a false heart; deceitful; treacherous. Sandys.
doubleminded: Having different minds at different times; unsettled;undetermined.A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Jas. i. 8.
doubler: An instrument for augmenting a very small quantity ofelectricity, so as to render it manifest by sparks or theelectroscope.
doublet: A word or words unintentionally doubled or set up a secondtime.
doublethreaded: Having two screw threads instead of one; -- said of a screw inwhich the pitch is equal to twice the distance between the centers ofadjacent threads.
doubletree: The bar, or crosspiece, of a carriage, to which the singletreesare attached.
doublets: See Doublet, 6 and 7.
doubling: The lining of the mantle borne about the shield or escutcheon.
doubloon: A Spanish gold coin, no longer issued, varying in value atdifferent times from over fifteen dollars to about five. See Doblonin Sup.
doubtance: State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
doubter: One who doubts; one whose opinion is unsettled; one whoscruples.
doubtfully: In a doubtful manner.Nor did the goddess doubtfully declare. Dryden.
doubting: That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts.-- Doubt"ing*ly, adv.
doubtless: Free from fear or suspicion. [Obs.]Pretty child, sleep doubtless and secure. Shak.
doubtlessly: Unquestionably. Beau. & Fl.
doubtous: Doubtful. [Obs.] Chaucer.
douc: A monkey (Semnopithecus nemæus), remarkable for its varied andbrilliant colors. It is a native of Cochin China.
doucepere: One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne inwar. [Written also douzepere.] [Obs.]Big-looking like a doughty doucepere. Spenser.
douche: A syringe.
doucine: Same as Cyma, under Cyma.
doucker: A grebe or diver; -- applied also to the golden-eye, pochard,scoter, and other ducks. [Written also ducker.] [Prov. Eng.]
dough-baked: Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection;unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding. [Colloq.] Halliwell.
dough-faced: Easily molded; pliable.
dough-kneaded: Like dough; soft.He demeans himself . . . like a dough-kneaded thing. Milton.
doughbird: The Eskimo curlew (Numenius borealis). See Curlew.
doughface: A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, orone who is easily molded. [Political cant, U. S.]
doughfaceism: The character of a doughface; truckling pliability.
doughiness: The quality or state of being doughy.
doughnut: A small cake (usually sweetened) fried in a kettle of boilinglard.
doughtily: In a doughty manner.
doughtiness: The quality of being doughty; valor; bravery.
doughtren: Daughters. [Obs.] Chaucer.
doughty: Able; strong; valiant; redoubtable; as, a doughty hero.Sir Thopas wex [grew] a doughty swain. Chaucer.Doughty families, hugging old musty quarrels to their hearts, buffeteach other from generation to generation. Motley.
doughy: Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as,a doughy complexion.
doulocracy: A government by slaves. [Written also dulocracy.] Hare.
doum palm: See Doom palm.
doupe: The carrion crow. [Written also dob.] [Prov. Eng.]
dour: Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.[Scot.]A dour wife, a sour old carlin. C. Reade.
doura: A kind of millet. See Durra.
douroucouli: See Durukuli.
douse: To strike or lower in haste; to slacken suddenly; as, douse thetopsail.
dousing-chock: One of several pieces fayed across the apron and lapped in theknightheads, or inside planking above the upper deck. Ham. Nav.Encyc.
dout: To put out. [Obs.] "It douts the light." Sylvester.
douter: An extinguisher for candles. [Obs.]
dove: A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera. Thespecies are numerous.
dove plant: A Central American orchid (Peristeria elata), having a flowerstem five or six feet high, with numerous globose white fragrantflowers. The column in the center of the flower resembles a dove; --called also Holy Spirit plant.
dove-eyed: Having eyes like a dove; meekeyed; as, dove-eyed Peace.
dovekie: A guillemot (Uria grylle), of the arctic regions. Also appliedto the little auk or sea dove. See under Dove.
dovelet: A young or small dove. Booth.
dovelike: Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable. Longfellow.
doveship: The possession of dovelike qualities, harmlessness andinnocence. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
dovetail: A flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread),and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making aninterlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part inall directions except one. Dovetail molding (Arch.), a molding of anyconvex section arranged in a sort of zigzag, like a series ofdovetails.-- Dovetail saw (Carp.), a saw used in dovetailing.
dovish: Like a dove; harmless; innocent. "Joined with dovishsimplicity." Latimer.
dow: A kind of vessel. See Dhow.
dowable: Capable of being endowed; entitled to dower. Blackstone.
dowager: A widow endowed, or having a jointure; a widow who eitherenjoys a dower from her deceased husband, or has property of her ownbrought by her to her husband on marriage, and settled on her afterhis decease. Blount. Burrill.
dowagerism: The rank or condition of a dowager; formality, as that of adowager. Also used figuratively.Mansions that have passed away into dowagerism. Thackeray.
dowcet: One of the testicles of a hart or stag. [Spelt also doucet.] B.Jonson.
dowdy: Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress;vulgar-looking.-- Dow"di*ly, adv.-- Dow"di*ness, n.
dowdyish: Like a dowdy.
dowel: To fasten together by dowels; to furnish with dowels; as, acooper dowels pieces for the head of a cask.
dower: That portion of the real estate of a man which his widow enjoysduring her life, or to which a woman is entitled after the death ofher husband. Blackstone.
dowered: Furnished with, or as with, dower or a marriage portion. Shak.
dowerless: Destitute of dower; having no marriage portion. Shak.
dowery: See Dower.
dowitcher: The red-breasted or gray snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); --called also brownback, and grayback.
dowl: Same as Dowle.
dowlas: A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and inScotland, now nearly replaced by calico. Shak.
dowle: Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather. Shak.No feather, or dowle of a feather. De Quincey.
down: To cover, ornament, line, or stuff with down. [R.] Young.
down-share: A breastplow used in paring off turf on downs. [Eng.] Knight.
down-wind: With the wind.
downbear: To bear down; to depress.
downcast: Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness,modesty, dejection, or guilt.'T is love, said she; and then my downcast eyes, And guilty dumbness,witnessed my surprise. Dryden.- Down"cast`ly, adv.-- Down"cast`ness, n.
downcome: A pipe for leading combustible gases downward from the top ofthe blast furnace to the hot-blast stoves, boilers, etc., where theyare burned.
downfallen: Fallen; ruined. Carew.
downfalling: Falling down.
downgyved: Hanging down like gyves or fetters. [Poetic & Rare] Shak.
downhaul: A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as,a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul.
downhearted: Dejected; low-spirited.
downhill: Towards the bottom of a hill; as, water runs downhill.
downiness: The quality or state of being downy.
downlooked: Having a downcast countenance; dejected; gloomy; sullen. [R.]Dryden.
downlying: The time of retiring to rest; time of repose. Cavendish. At thedownlying, at the travail in childbirth. [Scot.]
downpour: A pouring or streaming downwards; esp., a heavy or continuousshower.
downsitting: The act of sitting down; repose; a resting.Thou knowest my downsitting and my uprising. Ps. cxxxix. 2.
downstairs: Down the stairs; to a lower floor.-- a.
downsteepy: Very steep. [Obs.] Florio.
downstream: Down the stream; as, floating downstream.
downstroke: A stroke made with a downward motion of the pen or pencil.
downthrow: The sudden drop or depression of the strata of rocks on oneside of a fault. See Throw, n.
downweed: Cudweed, a species of Gnaphalium.
downweigh: To weigh or press down.A different sin downweighs them to the bottom. Longfellow.
dowral: Of or relating to a dower. [R.]
dowress: A woman entitled to dower. Bouvier.
dowse: To beat or thrash. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
dowst: A dowse. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
dowve: A dove. [Obs.] Chaucer.
doxological: Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God. Howell.
doxologize: To give glory to God, as in a doxology; to praise God withdoxologies.
doxology: In Christian worship
doxy: A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart. Shak.
doyen: Lit., a dean; the senior member of a body or group; as, thedoyen of French physicians. "This doyen of newspapers."  A. R.Colquhoun.
doyly: See Doily.
doze: To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefiedcondition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy.If he happened to doze a little, the jolly cobbler waked him.L'Estrange.
dozenth: Twelfth. [R.]
dozer: One who dozes or drowses.
doziness: The state of being dozy; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.
dozy: Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head.Dryden.
dozzled: Stupid; heavy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
drab: To associate with strumpets; to wench. Beau. & Fl.
drabber: One who associates with drabs; a wencher. Massinger.
drabbet: A coarse linen fabric, or duck.
drabbish: Somewhat drab in color.
drabble: To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble agown or cloak. Halliwell.
drabble-tail: A draggle-tail; a slattern. Halliwell.
drabbler: A piece of canvas fastened by lacing to the bonnet of a sail,to give it a greater depth, or more drop.
dracaena: A genus of liliaceous plants with woody stems and funnel-shapedflowers.
dracanth: A kind of gum; -- called also gum tragacanth, or tragacanth.See Tragacanth.
drachme: See Drachma.
dracin: See Draconin.
draco: The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the northpole of the ecliptic.
draconian: Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c.Draconian code, or Draconian laws, a code of laws made by Draco.Their measures were so severe that they were said to be written inletters of blood; hence, any laws of excessive rigor.
draconic: Relating to Draco, the Athenian lawgiver; or to theconstellation Draco; or to dragon's blood.
draconin: A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; --called also dracin.
dracontic: Belonging to that space of time in which the moon performs onerevolution, from ascending node to ascending node. See Dragon's head,under Dragon. [Obs.] "Dracontic month." Crabb.
dracontine: Belonging to a dragon. Southey.
drad: Dreaded. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dradde: of Dread. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dradge: Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing. Raymond.
draff: Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash;waste matter.Prodigals lately come from swine keeping, from eating draff andhusks. Shak.The draff and offal of a bygone age. Buckle.Mere chaff and draff, much better burnt. Tennyson.
draffish: Worthless; draffy. Bale.
draffy: Dreggy; waste; worthless.The dregs and draffy part. Beau. & Fl.
draftsman: See Draughtsman.
drag: A confection; a comfit; a drug. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dragantine: A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gun tragacanth.
dragbar: Same as Drawbar (b). Called also draglink, and drawlink. [U.S.]
dragbolt: A coupling pin. See under Coupling. [U. S.]
dragees: Sugar-coated medicines.
draggle: To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass;to drabble; to trail. Gray.With draggled nets down-hanging to the tide. Trench.
draggle-tail: A slattern who suffers her gown to trail in the mire; adrabble-tail.
draggle-tailed: Untidy; sluttish; slatternly. W. Irving.
dragman: A fisherman who uses a dragnet. Sir M. Hale.
dragnet: A net to be drawn along the bottom of a body of water, as infishing.
dragoman: An interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts ofthe East.
dragon: A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous wingedserpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, andregarded as very powerful and ferocious.The dragons which appear in early paintings and sculptures areinvariably representations of a winged crocodile. Fairholt.
dragonet: A small British marine fish (Callionymuslyra); -- called alsoyellow sculpin, fox, and gowdie.
dragonish: resembling a dragon. Shak.
dragonlike: Like a dragon. Shak.
dragonnade: The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV.,by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid anddevastating incursion; dragoonade.He learnt it as he watched the dragonnades, the tortures, themassacres of the Netherlands. C. Kingsley.
dragoon: Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either onhorseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.
dragoonade: See Dragonnade.
dragooner: A dragoon. [Obs.]
drail: To trail; to draggle. [Obs.] South.
drain: The grain from the mashing tub; as, brewers' drains. [Eng.]Halliwell. Box drain, Counter drain. See under Box, Counter.-- Right of drain (Law), an easement or servitude by which one manhas a right to convey water in pipes through or over the estate ofanother. Kent.
drainable: Capable of being drained.
drainage: The system of drains and their operation, by which superfluouswater is removed from towns, railway beds, mines, and other works.
draine: The missel thrush.
drainer: One who, or that which, drains.
draining: The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land. Drainingtile. Same as Draintile.
drainpipe: A pipe used for carrying off surplus water.
draintile: A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also drainingtile.
draintrap: See 4th Trap, 5.
drake: The drake fly.The drake will mount steeple height into the air. Walton.Drake fly, a kind of fly, sometimes used in angling.The dark drake fly, good in August. Walton.
drakestone: A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skipfrom point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwingstones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes.Internal earthquakes, that, not content with one throe, run alongspasmodically, like boys playing at what is called drakestone. DeQuincey.
dram: A Persian daric. Ezra ii. 69. Fluid dram, or Fluid drachm. Seeunder Fluid.
drama: Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having thequalities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid.The emperor . . . performed his part with much dramatic effect.Motley.
dramatically: In a dramatic manner; theatrically; vividly.
dramatis personae: The actors in a drama or play.
dramatist: The author of a dramatic composition; a writer of plays.
dramatizable: Capable of being dramatized.
dramatization: Act of dramatizing.
dramatize: To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama;to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or anhistorical episode.They dramatized tyranny for public execration. Motley.
dramaturgic: Relating to dramaturgy.
dramaturgist: One versed in dramaturgy. Carlyle.
dramaturgy: The art of dramatic composition and representation.
dramming: The practice of drinking drams.
dramseller: One who sells distilled liquors by the dram or glass.
dramshop: A shop or barroom where spirits are sold by the dram.
drank: of Drink.
draper: One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper andtailor.
draperied: Covered or supplied with drapery. [R.] Byron.
drapet: Cloth. [Obs.] Spenser.
drastic: Acting rapidly and violently; efficacious; powerful; -- opposedto bland; as, drastic purgatives.-- n. (Med.)
drasty: Filthy; worthless. [Obs.] "Drasty ryming." Chaucer.
draugh: See Draft. [Obs.]
draught: The act of selecting or detaching soldiers; a draft (see Draft,n., 2)(g) The act of drawing up, marking out, or delineating;representation. Dryden.
draughtboard: A checkered board on which draughts are played. SeeCheckerboard.
draughthouse: A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy. [Obs.] 2Kings x. 27.
draughts: A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c).
draughtsmanship: The office, art, or work of a draughtsman.
draughty: Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly,comfortless room.
drave: , old imp. of Drive. [Obs.]
dravida: A race Hindostan, believed to be the original people whooccupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion.
dravidian: Of or pertaining to the Dravida. Dravidian languages, a groupof languages of Southern India, which seem to have been the idioms ofthe natives, before the invasion of tribes speaking Sanskrit. Ofthese languages, the Tamil is the most important.
draw: To have efficiency as an epispastic; to act as a sinapism; --said of a blister, poultice, etc.
draw-cut: A single cut with a knife.
drawable: Capable of being drawn.
drawback: Money paid back or remitted; especially, a certain amount ofduties or customs, sometimes the whole, and sometimes only a part,remitted or paid back by the government, on the exportation of thecommodities on which they were levied. M
drawbench: A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through adrawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also calleddrawing bench.
drawbolt: A coupling pin. See under Coupling.
drawbore: A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than theholes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against whichthe shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it,will draw these parts together. Weale.
drawboy: A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, apart of power loom that performs the same office.
drawbridge: A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to beraised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hindercommunication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, orover a navigable river or canal.
drawcansir: A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully.The leader was of an ugly look and gigantic stature; he acted like adrawcansir, sparing neither friend nor foe. Addison.
drawee: The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; --the correlative of drawer.
drawer: An under-garment worn on the lower limbs. Chest of drawers. Seeunder Chest.
drawfiling: The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewiseinstead of lengthwise.
drawgear: The means or parts by which cars are connected to be drawn.
drawgloves: An old game, played by holding up the fingers. Herrick.
drawhead: The flanged outer end of a drawbar; also, a name applied to thedrawgear.
drawing: The process of pulling out and elongating the sliver from thecarding machine, by revolving rollers, to prepare it for spinning.
drawl: To utter in a slow, lengthened tone.
drawlatch: A housebreaker or thief. [Obs.] Old Play (1631).
drawling: The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl.-- Drawl"ing*ly, adv. Bacon.
drawlink: Same as Drawbar (b).
drawn: See Draw, v. t. & i. Drawn butter, butter melter and preparedto be used as a sort of gravy.-- Drawn fowl, an eviscerated fowl.-- Drawn game or battle, one in which neither party wins; oneequally contested.-- Drawn fox, one driven from cover. Shak.-- Drawn work, ornamental work made by drawing out threads from finecloth, and uniting the cross threads, to form a pattern.
drawnet: A net for catching the larger sorts of birds; also, a dragnet.Crabb.
drawplate: A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conicalholes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated.
drawrod: A rod which unites the drawgear at opposite ends of the car,and bears the pull required to draw the train.
drawshave: See Drawing knife.
drawspring: The spring to which a drawbar is attached.
dray: A squirrel's nest. Cowper.
drayman: A man who attends a dray.
drazel: A slut; a vagabond wench. Same as Drossel. [Obs.] Hudibras.
dread: To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, withterrific apprehension.When at length the moment dreaded through so many years came close,the dark cloud passed away from Johnson's mind. Macaulay.
dread-bolted: Armed with dreaded bolts. "Dread-bolted thunder." [Poetic]Shak.
dreadable: Worthy of being dreaded.
dreader: One who fears, or lives in fear.
dreadfully: In a dreadful manner; terribly. Dryden.
dreadfulness: The quality of being dreadful.
dreadingly: With dread. Warner.
dreadless: Without doubt. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dreadlessness: Freedom from dread.
dreadly: Dreadful. [Obs.] "Dreadly spectacle." Spenser.-- adv.
dream: To have a dream of; to see, or have a vision of, in sleep, orin idle fancy; -- often followed by an objective clause.Your old men shall dream dreams. Acts ii. 17.At length in sleep their bodies they compose, And dreamt the futurefight. Dryden.And still they dream that they shall still succeed. Cowper.To dream away, out, through, etc., to pass in revery or inaction; tospend in idle vagaries; as, to dream away an hour; to dream throughlife. " Why does Antony dream out his hours" Dryden.
dreamful: Full of dreams. " Dreamful ease." Tennyson.-- Dream"ful*ly, adv.
dreamily: As if in a dream; softly; slowly; languidly. Longfellow.
dreaminess: The state of being dreamy.
dreamingly: In a dreamy manner.
dreamland: An unreal, delightful country such as in sometimes pictured indreams; region of fancies; fairyland.[He] builds a bridge from dreamland for his lay. Lowell.
dreamless: Free from, or without, dreams. Camden.-- Dream"less*ly, adv.
dreamy: Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, orlike, dreams; visionary. "The dreamy dells." Tennyson.
drear: Dismal; gloomy with solitude. "A drear and dying sound."Milton.
drearily: Gloomily; dismally.
dreariment: Dreariness. [Obs.] Spenser.
drearing: Sorrow. [Obs.] Spenser.
drearisome: Very dreary. Halliwell.
drecche: To delay. [Obs.] Gower.
dredge: Very fine mineral matter held in suspension in water. Raymond.
dredger: A box with holes in its lid; -- used for sprinkling flour, ason meat or a breadboard; -- called also dredging box, drudger, anddrudging box.
dree: To endure; to suffer. [Scot.]
dreg: Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, orprecipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment;hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregsof society.We, the dregs and rubbish of mankind. Dryden.
dregginess: Fullness of dregs or lees; foulness; feculence.
dreggish: Foul with lees; feculent. Harvey.
dreggy: Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent. Boyle.
dreibund: A triple alliance; specif., the alliance of Germany, Austria,and Italy, formed in 1882.
drein: To drain. [Obs.] Congreve.
dreissena: A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha)is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters ofEurope.
drench: A drink; a draught; specifically, a potion of medicine pouredor forced down the throat; also, a potion that causes purging. "Adrench of wine." Dryden.Give my roan horse a drench. Shak.
drenche: To drown. [Obs.]In the sea he drenched. Chaucer.
drengage: The tenure by which a drench held land. [Obs.] Burrill.
drent: Drenched; drowned. [Obs.] "Condemned to be drent." Spenser.
dresden ware: A superior kind of decorated porcelain made near Dresden inSaxony.
dress: To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonlyto adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, todress the ranks.
dress circle: A gallery or circle in a theater, generally the first above thefloor, in which originally dress clothes were customarily worn.
dress coat: A coat with skirts behind only, as distinct from the frockcoat, of which the skirts surround the body. It is worn on occasionsof ceremony. The dress coat of officers of the United States army isa full-skirted frock coat.
dress goods: A term applied to fabrics for the gowns of women and girls; --most commonly to fabrics of mixed materials, but also applicable tosilks, printed linens, and calicoes.
dresser: A kind of pick for shaping large coal.
dressiness: The state of being dressy.
dressing: An application (a remedy, bandage, etc.) to a sore or wound.Wiseman.
dressmaker: A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker.
dressmaking: The art, process, or occupation, of making dresses.
dressy: Showy in dress; attentive to dress.A dressy flaunting maidservant. T. Hook.A neat, dressy gentleman in black. W. Irving.
drest: of Dress.
dretch: See Drecche. [Obs.]
dreul: To drool. [Obs.]
drevil: A fool; a drudge. See Drivel.
drew: of Draw.
drey: A squirrel's nest. See Dray. [Obs.]
dreye: Dry. [Obs.] Chaucer.
drib: To do by little and little; as:(a) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop.(b) To appropriate unlawfully; to filch; to defalcate.He who drives their bargain dribs a part. Dryden.
dribber: One who dribs; one who shoots weakly or badly. [Obs.] Ascham.
dribble: To let fall in drops.Let the cook . . . dribble it all the way upstairs. Swift.
dribbler: One who dribbles.
drie: To endure. [Obs.]So causeless such drede for to drie. Chaucer.
dried: of Day. Also adj.; as, dried apples.
drier: Drying oil; a substance mingled with the oil used in oilpainting to make it dry quickly.
drift: The horizontal thrust or pressure of an arch or vault upon theabutments. [R.] Knight.
driftbolt: A bolt for driving out other bolts.
driftless: Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless.
driftpiece: An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheerwith the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail.
driftpin: A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9.
driftway: Same as Drift, 11.
driftweed: Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind. Darwin.
driftwind: A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., intoheaps. Beau. & Fl.
drifty: Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like.
drill: To practice an exercise or exercises; to train one's self.
drill press: A machine for drilling holes in metal, the drill being pressedto the metal by the action of a screw.
driller: One who, or that which, drills.
drilling: The act of using a drill in sowing seeds.
drillmaster: One who teaches drill, especially in the way of gymnastics.Macaulay.
drillstock: A contrivance for holding and turning a drill. Knight.
drily: See Dryly. Thackeray.
drimys: A genus of magnoliaceous trees. Drimys aromatica furnishesWinter's bark.
drinkable: Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable. Macaulay.Also used substantively, esp. in the plural. Steele.
drinkableness: State of being drinkable.
drinker: One who drinks; as, the effects of tea on the drinker; also,one who drinks spirituous liquors to excess; a drunkard. Drinker moth(Zoöl.), a large British moth (Odonestis potatoria).
drinkless: Destitute of drink. Chaucer.
drip: To let fall in drops.Which from the thatch drips fast a shower of rain. Swift.
dripple: Weak or rare. [Obs.]
dripstone: A drip, when made of stone. See Drip, 2.
drive: To dig Horizontally; to cut a horizontal gallery or tunnel.Tomlinson.
drivebolt: A drift; a tool for setting bolts home.
drivel: To be weak or foolish; to dote; as, a driveling hero; drivelinglove. Shak. Dryden.
driveler: A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool. [Written alsodriveller.]
driven: of Drive. Also adj. Driven well, a well made by driving a tubeinto the earth to an aqueous stratum; -- called also drive well.
drivepipe: A pipe for forcing into the earth.
driver: A part that transmits motion to another part by contact withit, or through an intermediate relatively movable part, as a gearwhich drives another, or a lever which moves another through a link,etc. Specifically:(a) The driving wheel of a locomotive.(b) An attachment to a lathe, spindle, or face plate to turn acarrier.(c) A crossbar on a grinding mill spindle to drive the upper stone.
driveway: A passage or way along or through which a carriage may bedriven.
drizzle: To rain slightly in very small drops; to fall, as water fromthe clouds, slowly and in fine particles; as, it drizzles; drizzlingdrops or rain. "Drizzling tears." Spenser.
drizzly: Characterized by small rain, or snow; moist and disagreeable."Winter's drizzly reign." Dryden.
drock: A water course. [Prov. Eng.]
drogher: A small craft used in the West India Islands to take offsugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel fortransporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher.[Written also droger.] Ham. Nar. Encyc.
drogue: See Drag, n.,
droh: of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
droil: To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod. [Obs.]
droit: A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also,in old law, the writ of right. Abbott. Droit d'aubaine. See underAubaine.-- Droits of the Admiralty (Eng. Law), rights or perquisites of theAdmiralty, arising from seizure of an enemy's ships in port on thebreaking out of war, or those coming into port in ignorance ofhostilities existing, or from such ships as are taken bynoncommissioned captors; also, the proceeds of wrecks, and derelictproperty at sea. The droits of admiralty are now paid into theExchequer for the public benefit.
droitural: relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished fromthe right of possession; as, droitural actions. [Obs.] Burrill.
droitzschka: See Drosky.
droll: Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity;amusing and strange.
droller: A jester; a droll. [Obs.] Glanvill.
drollingly: In a jesting manner.
drollish: Somewhat droll. Sterne.
drollist: A droll. [R.] Glanvill.
dromaeognathous: Having the structure of the palate like that of the ostrich andemu.
dromatherium: A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, theearliest yet found in America.
drome: The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North Africanbird, allied to the oyster catcher.
dromedary: The Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius), having one hump orprotuberance on the back, in distinction from the Bactrian camel,which has two humps.
drone: The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee. It gathers no honey.See Honeybee.All with united force combine to drive The lazy drones from thelaborious hive. Dryden.
drone bee: The male of the honeybee; a drone.
drone fly: A dipterous insect (Eristalis tenax), resembling the drone bee.See Eristalis.
dronepipe: One of the low-toned tubes of a bagpipe.
drongo: A passerine bird of the family Dicruridæ. They are usuallyblack with a deeply forked tail. They are natives of Asia, Africa,and Australia; -- called also drongo shrikes.
dronish: Like a drone; indolent; slow. Burke.-- Dron"ish*ly, adv.-- Dron"ish*ness, n.
dronkelewe: Given to drink; drunken. [Obs.] Chaucer.
dronte: The dodo.
drony: Like a drone; sluggish; lazy.
drool: To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools.His mouth drooling with texts. T. Parker.
droop: To let droop or sink. [R.] M. Arnold.Like to a withered vine That droops his sapless branches to theground. Shak.
drooper: One who, or that which, droops.
droopingly: In a drooping manner.
drop: Any medicine the dose of which is measured by drops; as,lavender drops.
droplet: A little drop; a tear. Shak.
droplight: An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from achandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.
dropper: A branch vein which drops off from, or leaves, the main lode.
dropping: That which falls in drops; the excrement or dung of animals.Dropping bottle, an instrument used to supply small quantities of afluid to a test tube or other vessel.-- Dropping fire, a continued irregular discharge of firearms.-- Dropping tube, a tube for ejecting any liquid in drops.
droppingly: In drops.
dropsicalness: State of being dropsical.
dropsied: Diseased with drops. Shak.
dropsy: An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity ofthe body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue. Dunglison.
dropt: imp. & p. p. of Drop, v. G. Eliot.
dropwise: After the manner of a drop; in the form of drops.Trickling dropwise from the cleft. Tennyson.
dropworm: The larva of any geometrid moth, which drops from trees bymeans of a thread of silk, as the cankerworm.
dropwort: An Old World species of Spiræa (S. filipendula), with finelycut leaves.
drosera: A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves ofwhich are beset with gland-tipped bristles. See Sundew. Gray.
drosky: A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consistingof a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on asaddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground. Other kinds ofvehicles are now so called, esp. a kind of victoria drawn by one ortwo horses, and used as a public carriage in German cities. [Writtenalso droitzschka, and droschke.]
drosometer: An instrument for measuring the quantity of dew on the surfaceof a body in the open air. It consists of a balance, having a plateat one end to receive the dew, and at the other a weight protectedfrom the deposit of dew.
drossel: A slut; a hussy; a drazel. [Obs.] Warner.
drossless: Free from dross. Stevens.
drossy: Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure;worthless. " Drossy gold." Dryden. "Drossy rhymes." Donne.-- Dross"i*ness, n.
drotchel: See Drossel. [Obs.]
drough: of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
droughtiness: A state of dryness of the weather; want of rain.
droumy: Troubled; muddy. [Obs.] Bacon.
drouth: Same as Drought. Sandys.Another ill accident is drouth at the spindling of corn. Bacon.One whose drouth [thirst], Yet scarce allayed, still eyes the currentstream. Milton.In the dust and drouth of London life. Tennyson.
drouthy: Droughty.
drove: of Drive.
droven: of Drive. [Obs.]
drovy: Turbid; muddy; filthy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
drow: of Draw. [Obs.] Chaucer.
drown: To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water.Methought, what pain it was to drown. Shak.
drownage: The act of drowning. [R.]
drowner: One who, or that which, drowns.
drowse: To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy withsleepiness; to doze. "He drowsed upon his couch." South.In the pool drowsed the cattle up to their knees. Lowell.
drowsihead: Drowsiness. Thomson.
drowsihed: Drowsihead. [Obs.] Spenser.
drowsily: In a drowsy manner.
drowsiness: State of being drowsy. Milton.
drowth: See Drought. Bacon.
droyle: See Droil. [Obs.] Spenser.
drub: To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel.Soundly Drubbed with a good honest cudgel. L'Estrange.
drubber: One who drubs. Sir W. Scott.
drudge: To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant officeswith toil and fatigue.He gradually rose in the estimation of the booksellers for whom hedrudged. Macaulay.
drudgery: The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignobleor slavish toil.The drudgery of penning definitions. Macaulay.Paradise was a place of bliss . . . without drudgery and with outsorrow. Locke.
drudging box: See Dredging box.
drudgingly: In a drudging manner; laboriously.
druery: Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love. [Obs.] Chaucer.
drug: To drudge; to toil laboriously. [Obs.] "To drugge and draw."Chaucer.
drugger: A druggist. [Obs.] Burton.
druggist: One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sellsdrugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary.
drugster: A druggist. [Obs.] Boule.
druidess: A female Druid; a prophetess.
druidish: Druidic.
druidism: The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, receivedand taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids.
drum: An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollowcylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin orvellum, to be beaten with a stick; or of a metallic hemisphere(kettledrum) with a single piece of skin to be so beaten; the commoninstrument for marking time in martial music; one of the pair oftympani in an orchestra, or cavalry band.The drums cry bud-a-dub. Gascoigne.
drum major: .
drum winding: A method of armature winding in which the wire is wound uponthe outer surface of a cylinder or drum from end to end of thecylinder; -- distinguished from ring winding, etc.
drumbeat: The sound of a beaten drum; drum music.Whose morning drumbeat, following the sun, and keeping company withthe hours, circles the earth with one continuous and unbroken strainof the martial airs of England. D. Webster.
drumfish: any fish of the family Sciænidæ, which makes a loud noise bymeans of its air bladder; -- called also drum.
drumlin: A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usuallyelongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former localglacial motion.
drumly: Turbid; muddy. [Scot. & Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Wodroephe (1623).Burns.
drummer: A fish that makes a sound when caught; as:(a) The squeteague.(b) A California sculpin.
drumming: The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noisewhich the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating hiswings upon his sides.
drummond light: A very intense light, produced by turning two streams of gas,one oxygen and the other hydrogen, or coal gas, in a state ofignition, upon a ball of lime; or a stream of oxygen gas through aflame of alcohol upon a ball or disk of lime; -- called alsooxycalcium light, or lime light.
drunk: A drunken condition; a spree. [Slang]
drunkard: One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; onewhose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot.The drunkard and glutton shall come to poverty. Prov. xxiii. 21.
drunkenhead: Drunkenness. [Obs.]
drunkenly: In a drunken manner. [R.] Shak.
drunkenness: The state of being drunk; drunkenness. [Obs.] Gower.
drupaceous: Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes;as, drupaceous trees or fruits.
drupal: Drupaceous.
drupe: A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp,without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel. The exocarpis succulent in the plum, cherry, apricot, peach, etc.; dry andsubcoriaceous in the almond; and fibrous in the cocoanut.
druse: A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded withcrystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode.
dry: Of certain morbid conditions, in which there is entire orcomparative absence of moisture; as, dry gangrene; dry catarrh.
dry dock: See under Dock.
dry goods: A commercial name for textile fabrics, cottons, woolens, linen,silks, laces, etc., -- in distinction from groceries. [U.S.]
dry nurse: A nurse who attends and feeds a child by hand; -- indistinction from a wet nurse, who suckles it.
dry-beat: To beat severely. Shak.
dry-boned: Having dry bones, or bones without flesh.
dry-eyed: Not having tears in the eyes.
dry-fisted: Niggardly.
dry-rub: To rub and cleanse without wetting. Dodsley.
dry-shod: Without wetting the feet.
dry-stone: Constructed of uncemented stone. "Dry-stone walls." Sir W.Scott.
dryad: A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of hertree.
dryandra: A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard,dry, evergreen leaves.
dryas: A dryad.
dryer: See Drier. Sir W. Temple.
dryfoot: The scent of the game, as far as it can be traced. [Obs.] Shak.
dryly: In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; withoutsympathy; coldly.
dryness: The state of being dry. See Dry.
drynurse: To feed, attend, and bring up without the breast. Hudibras.
dryobalanops: The genus to which belongs the single species D. Camphora, alofty resinous tree of Borneo and Sumatra, yielding Borneo camphorand camphor oil.
drysalter: A dealer in salted or dried meats, pickles, sauces, etc., andin the materials used in pickling, salting, and preserving variouskinds of food Hence drysalters usually sell a number of salinesubstances and miscellaneous drugs. Brande & C.
drysaltery: The articles kept by a drysalter; also, the business of adrysalter.
duad: A union of two; duality. [R.] Harris.
dual: Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two;as, the dual number of nouns, etc. , in Greek.Here you have one half of our dual truth. Tyndall.
dualin: An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust orwood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitrocompounds. It is inferior to dynamite, and is more liable toexplosion.
dualism: State of being dual or twofold; a twofold division; any systemwhich is founded on a double principle, or a twofold distinction; as:(a) (Philos.) A view of man as constituted of two original andindependent elements, as matter and spirit. (Theol.)(b) A system which accepts two gods, or two original principles, onegood and the other evil.(c) The doctrine that all mankind are divided by the arbitrary decreeof God, and in his eternal foreknowledge, into two classes, the electand the reprobate.(d) (Physiol.) The theory that each cerebral hemisphere actsindependently of the other.An inevitable dualism bisects nature, so that each thing is a half,and suggests another thing to make it whole. Emerson.
dualistic: Consisting of two; pertaining to dualism or duality. Dualisticsystem or theory (Chem.), the theory, originated by Lavoisier anddeveloped by Berzelius, that all definite compounds are binary intheir nature, and consist of two distinct constituents, themselvessimple or complex, and possessed of opposite chemical or electricalaffinities.
duality: The quality or condition of being two or twofold; dualcharacter or usage.
duan: A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song.[R.]
duarchy: Government by two persons.
dub: To make a noise by brisk drumbeats. "Now the drum dubs." Beau.& Fl.
dubb: The Syrian bear. See under Bear. [Written also dhubb, and dub.]
dubber: One who, or that which, dubs.
dubiety: Doubtfulness; uncertainty; doubt. [R.] Lamb. "The dubiety ofhis fate." Sir W. Scott.
dubiosity: The state of being doubtful; a doubtful statement or thing.[R.]Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties,possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne.
dubiously: In a dubious manner.
dubiousness: State of being dubious.
dubitable: Liable to be doubted; uncertain. [R.] Dr. H. More.-- Du"bi*ta*bly, adv. [R.]
dubitancy: Doubt; uncertainty. [R.] Hammond.
dubitate: To doubt. [R.]If he . . . were to loiter dubitating, and not come. Carlyle.
dubitation: Act of doubting; doubt. [R.] Sir T. Scott.
dubitative: Tending to doubt; doubtful. [R.] -- Du"bi*ta*tive*ly, adv. [R.]. Eliot.
duboisia: Same as Duboisine.
duboisine: An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree(Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine.It produces dilation of the pupil of the eye.
ducal: Of or pertaining to a duke.His ducal cap was to be exchanged for a kingly crown. Motley.
ducally: In the manner of a duke, or in a manner becoming the rank of aduke.
ducat: A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries inEurope; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke.
ducatoon: A silver coin of several countries of Europe, and of differentvalues.
duces tecum: A judicial process commanding a person to appear in court andbring with him some piece of evidence or other thing to be producedto the court.
duchess: The wife or widow of a duke; also, a lady who has thesovereignty of a duchy in her own right.
duchesse lace: A beautiful variety of Brussels pillow lace made originally inBelgium and resembling Honiton guipure. It is worked with fine threadin large sprays, usually of the primrose pattern, with much raisedwork.
duchy: The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.
duck: A pet; a darling. Shak.
duck-billed: Having a bill like that of a duck..
duck-legged: Having short legs, like a waddling duck; short-legged. Dryden.
duckbill: See Duck mole, under Duck, n.
ducking: , from Duck, v. t. & i. Ducking stool, a stool or chair inwhich common scolds were formerly tied, and plunged into water, as apunishment. See Cucking stool. The practice of ducking began in thelatter part of the 15th century, and prevailed until the early partof the 18th, and occasionally as late as the 19th century.Blackstone. Chambers.
duckling: A young or little duck. Gay.
duckweed: A genus (Lemna) of small plants, seen floating in greatquantity on the surface of stagnant pools fresh water, and supposedto furnish food for ducks; -- called also duckmeat.
duct: One of the vessels of an animal body by which the products ofglandular secretion are conveyed to their destination.
ductible: Capable of being drawn out [R.] Feltham.
ductilimeter: An instrument for accurately determining the ductility ofmetals.
duction: Guidance. [Obs.] Feltham.
ductless: Having to duct or outlet; as, a ductless gland.
ductor: A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matterfrom a roller. See Doctor, 4. Knight. Ductor roller (Printing), theroller which conveys or supplies ink to another roller. Knight.
ducture: Guidance. [Obs.] South.
dudder: To confuse or confound with noise. Jennings.
duddery: A place where rags are bought and kept for sale. [Eng.]
dude: A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by anultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations. [Recent]The social dude who affects English dress and English drawl. TheAmerican.
dudeen: A short tobacco pipe. [Written also dudheen.] [Irish]
dudgeon: Resentment; ill will; anger; displeasure.I drink it to thee in dudgeon and hostility.Sir T. Scott.
dudish: Like, or characterized of, a dude.
due: Directly; exactly; as, a due east course.
duebill: A brief written acknowledgment of a debt, not made payable toorder, like a promissory note. Burrill.
dueful: Fit; becoming. [Obs.] Spenser.
duel: A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, byagreement. It usually arises from an injury done or an affront givenby one to the other. Trial by duel (Old Law), a combat between twopersons for proving a cause; trial by battel.
dueler: One who engages in a duel. [R.] [Written also dueller.] South.
dueling: e act or practice of fighting in single combat. Also adj.[Written also duelling.]
duelist: One who fights in single combat. [Written also duellist.]A duelist . . . always values himself upon his courage, his sense ofhonor, his fidelity and friendship. Hume.
duelo: A duel; also, the rules of dueling. [Obs.] Shak.
dueness: Quality of being due; debt; what is due or becoming. T.Goodwin.
duet: A composition for two performers, whether vocal orinstrumental.
duettino: A duet of short extent and concise form.
duetto: See Duet.
duffel: A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze.[Written also duffle.]Good duffel gray and flannel fine. Wordsworth.
duffel bag: A sack to hold miscellaneous articles, as tools, supplies, orthe like.
duffle: See Duffel.
dufrenite: A mineral of a blackish green color, commonly massive or innodules. It is a hydrous phosphate of iron.
dug: A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, nowthat of a cow or other beast.With mother's dug between its lips. Shak.
dugong: An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the orderSirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail. It inhabitsthe Red Sea, Indian Ocean, East Indies, and Australia. [Written alsoduyong.]
dugway: A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface ofthe land. [U.S.]
duke: To play the duke. [Poetic]Lord Angelo dukes it well in his absence. Shak.
dukeling: A little or insignificant duke. Ford.
dukeship: The quality or condition of being a duke; also, the personalityof a duke. Massinger.
dulcamara: A plant (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet, n.,
dulcamarin: A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara),as a yellow amorphous substance. It probably occasions the compoundtaste. See Bittersweet, 3(a).
dulce: To make sweet; to soothe. [Obs.]
dulceness: Sweetness. [Obs.] Bacon.
dulciana: A sweet-toned stop of an organ.
dulcification: The act of dulcifying or sweetening. Boyle.
dulcified: Sweetened; mollified. Dulcified spirit or spirits, a compoundof alcohol with mineral acids; as, dulcified spirits of niter.
dulcifluous: Flowing sweetly. [R.]
dulcify: To sweeten; to free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony.Wiseman.
dulciloquy: A soft manner of speaking.
dulcinea: A mistress; a sweetheart.I must ever have some Dulcinea in my head. Sterne.
dulciness: See Dulceness. [Obs.]
dulcino: See Dolcino.
dulcite: A white, sugarlike substance, C6H8.(OH)2, occurring naturallyin a manna from Madagascar, and in certain plants, and producedartificially by the reduction of galactose and lactose or milk sugar.
dulcitude: Sweetness. [R.] Cockeram.
dulcorate: To sweeten; to make less acrimonious. [R.] Bacon.
dulcoration: The act of sweetening. [R.] Bacon.
duledge: One of the dowels joining the ends of the fellies which formthe circle of the wheel of a gun carriage. Wilhelm.
dulia: An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angelsand saints as the servants of God.
dull: To become dull or stupid. Rom. of R.
dull-brained: Stupid; doltish. Shak.
dull-browed: Having a gloomy look.
dull-eyed: Having eyes wanting brightness, liveliness, or vivacity. Shak.
dull-sighted: Having poor eyesight.
dull-witted: Stupid.
dullard: A stupid person; a dunce. Shak.-- a.
duller: One who, or that which, dulls.
dullhead: A blockhead; a dolt. Ascham.
dullish: Somewhat dull; uninteresting; tiresome. "A series of dullishverses." Prof. Wilson.
dullness: The state of being dull; slowness; stupidity; heaviness;drowsiness; bluntness; obtuseness; dimness; want of luster; want ofvividness, or of brightness. [Written also dulness.]And gentle dullness ever loves a joke. Pope.
dullsome: Dull. [R.] Gataker.
dully: In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life orspirit.Supinely calm and dully innocent. G. Lyttelton.
dulocracy: See Doulocracy.
dulse: A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten,as in Scotland. The true dulse is Sarcophyllis edulis; the common isRhodymenia. [Written also dillisk.]The crimson leaf of the dulse is seen To blush like a banner bathedin slaughter. Percival.
dulwilly: The ring plover. [Prov. Eng.]
duly: In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought tobe; properly; regularly.
dumal: Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly. [R.]
dumb: To put to silence. [Obs.] Shak.
dumb-bell: A weight, consisting of two spheres or spheroids, connected bya short bar for a handle; used (often in pairs) for gymnasticexercise.
dumb-waiter: A framework on which dishes, food, etc., are passed from oneroom or story of a house to another; a lift for dishes, etc.; also, apiece of furniture with movable or revolving shelves.
dumbledor: A bumblebee; also, a cockchafer. [Prov. Eng.]
dumbly: In silence; mutely.
dumbness: The quality or state of being dumb; muteness; silence;inability to speak.
dumdum bullet: A kind of manstopping bullet; -- so named from Dumdum, inIndia, where bullets are manufactured for the Indian army.
dumetose: Dumose.
dumfound: To strike dumb; to confuse with astonishment. [Written alsodumbfound.] Spectator.
dumfounder: To dumfound; to confound. [Written also dumbfounder.]
dummador: A dumbledor.
dummerer: One who feigns dumbness. [Obs.] Burton.
dummy: One who plays a merely nominal part in any action; a shamcharacter.
dump: A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boysin playing chuck farthing. [Eng.] Smart.
dumpiness: The state of being dumpy.
dumpish: Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy. " A . . . dumpish andsour life." Lord Herbert.-- Dump"ish*ly, adv.-- Dump"ish*ness, n.
dumple: To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another. [R.]He was a little man, dumpled up together. Sir W. Scott.
dumpling: A roundish mass of dough boiled in soup, or as a sort ofpudding; often, a cover of paste inclosing an apple or other fruit,and boiled or baked; as, an apple dumpling.
dumpy level: A level having a short telescope (hence its name) rigidly fixedto a table capable only of rotatory movement in a horizontal plane.The telescope is usually an inverting one. It is sometimes called theTroughton level, from the name of the inventor, and a varietyimproved by one Gavatt is known as the Gavatt level.
dun: A mound or small hill.
dunce: One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull orweak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.I never knew this town without dunces of figure. Swift.
duncedom: The realm or domain of dunces. [Jocose] Carlyle.
duncery: Dullness; stupidity.
duncical: Like a dunce; duncish.The most dull and duncical commissioner. Fuller.
duncify: To make stupid in intellect. [R.] Bp. Warburton.
duncish: Somewhat like a dunce. [R.] -- Dun"cish*ness, n. [R.]
dunder: The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation ofrum. [West Indies]The use of dunder in the making of rum answers the purpose of yeastin the fermentation of flour. B. Edwards.
dunder-headed: Thick-headed; stupid.
dunderhead: A dunce; a numskull; a blockhead. Beau. & Fl.
dunderpate: See Dunderhead.
dune: A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, butoften carried far inland by the prevailing winds. [Written also dun.]Three great rivers, the Rhine, the Meuse, and the Scheldt, haddeposited their slime for ages among the dunes or sand banks heavedup by the ocean around their mouths. Motley.
dunfish: Codfish cured in a particular manner, so as to be of a superiorquality.
dung: The excrement of an animal. Bacon.
dungaree: A coarse kind of unbleached cotton stuff. [Written alsodungari.] [India]
dungeon: A close, dark prison, commondonjon or keep of a castle, thesebeing used as prisons.Down with him even into the deep dungeon. Tyndale.Year after year he lay patiently in a dungeon. Macaulay.
dungfork: A fork for tossing dung.
dungmeer: A pit where dung and weeds rot for manure.
dungy: Full of dung; filthy; vile; low. Shak.
dungyard: A yard where dung is collected.
dunker: One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices aremainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; --called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren,and German Baptists.
dunlin: A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr,dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper. It is found both inEurope and America.
dunnage: Fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on thebottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury bywater, or stowed among casks and other cargo to prevent their motion.
dunner: One employed in soliciting the payment of debts.
dunnish: Inclined to a dun color. Ray.
dunnock: The hedge sparrow or hedge accentor. [Local, Eng.]
dunny: Deaf; stupid.[Prov. Eng.]My old dame Joan is something dunny, and will scarce know how tomanage. Sir W. Scott.
dunt: A blow. [Obs.] R. of Glouc.
dunted: Beaten; hence, blunted. [Obs.]Fencer's swords . . . having the edge dunted. Fuller.
dunter: A porpoise. [Scott.] Dunter goose (Zoöl.) the eider duck. J.Brand.
duo: A composition for two performers; a duet.
duodecennial: Consisting of twelve years. [R.] Ash.
duodecimal: Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale oftwelves.-- Du`o*dec"i*mal*ly, adv.
duodecimfid: Divided into twelve parts.
duodecimo: Having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book,leaf, size, etc.
duodecuple: Consisting of twelves. Arbuthnot.
duodenal: Of or pertaining to the duodenum; as, duodenal digestion.
duodenary: Containing twelve; twelvefold; increasing by twelves;duodecimal.
duodenum: The part of the small intestines between the stomach and thejejunum. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive.
duograph: A picture printed from two half-tone plates made with thescreen set at different angles, and usually printed in two shades ofthe same color or in black and one tint.
duoliteral: Consisting of two letters only; biliteral. Stuart.
duomo: A cathedral. See Dome, 2.Of tower or duomo, sunny sweet. Tennyson.
duotone: Any picture printed in two shades of the same color, asduotypes and duographs are usually printed.
duotype: A print made from two half-tone plates made from the samenegative, but etched differently.
dup: To open; as, to dup the door. [Obs.] Shak.
dupable: Capable of being duped.
dupe: One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull;as, the dupe of a schemer.
duper: One who dupes another.
dupery: The act or practice of duping. [R.]
dupion: A double cocoon, made by two silkworms.
duple: Double. Duple ratio (Math.), that in which the antecedent termis double the consequent, as of 2 to 1, 8 to 4, etc.
duplex: Double; twofold. Duplex escapement, a peculiar kind of watchescapement, in which the scape-wheel has two sets of teeth. SeeEscapement.-- Duplex lathe, one for turning off, screwing, and surfacing, bymeans of two cutting tools, on opposite sides of the piece operatedupon.-- Duplex pumping engine, a steam pump in which two steam cylindersare placed side by side, one operating the valves of the other.-- Duplex querela Etym
duplicate: Double; twofold. Duplicate proportion or ratio (Math.), theproportion or ratio of squares. Thus, in geometrical proportion, thefirst term to the third is said to be in a duplicate ratio of thefirst to the second, or as its square is to the square of the second.Thus, in 2, 4, 8, 16, the ratio of 2 to 8 is a duplicate of that of 2to 4, or as the square of 2 is to the square of 4.
duplication: The act or process of dividing by natural growth or spontaneousaction; as, the duplication of cartilage cells. Carpenter.Duplication of the cube (Math.), the operation of finding a cubehaving a volume which is double that of a given cube.
duplicative: Having the quality of subdividing into two by natural growth."Duplicative subdivision." Carpenter.
duplicature: A doubling; a fold, as of a membrane.
dupper: See 2d Dubber.
dur: Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major.
dura: Short form for Dura mater.
dura mater: The tough, fibrous membrane, which lines the cavity of theskull and spinal column, and surrounds the brain and spinal cord; --frequently abbreviated to dura.
durability: The state or quality of being durable; the power ofuninterrupted or long continuance in any condition; the power ofresisting agents or influences which tend to cause changes, decay, ordissolution; lastingness.A Gothic cathedral raises ideas of grandeur in our minds by the size,its height, . . . its antiquity, and its durability. Blair.
durable: Able to endure or continue in a particular condition; lasting;not perishable or changeable; not wearing out or decaying soon;enduring; as, durable cloth; durable happiness.Riches and honor are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness.Prov. viii. 18.An interest which from its object and grounds must be so durable. DeQuincey.
durableness: Power of lasting, enduring, or resisting; durability.The durableness of the metal that supports it. Addison.
durably: In a lasting manner; with long continuance.
dural: Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater.
duramen: The heartwood of an exogenous tree.
durancy: Duration. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
durant: See Durance, 3.
durante: During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito,during pleasure.
duration: The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; theportion of time during which anything exists.It was proposed that the duration of Parliament should be limited.Macaulay.Soon shall have passed our own human duration. D. Webster.
durative: Continuing; not completed; implying duration.Its durative tense, which expresses the thought of it as going on. J.Byrne.
durbar: An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee;a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor generalof India. [India] [Written also darbar.]
dure: Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome. [R.]The winter is severe, and life is dure and rude. W. H. Russell.
dureful: Lasting. [Obs.] Spenser.
dureless: Not lasting. [Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.
durene: A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, offartificial production, with an odor like camphor.
duress: The state of compulsion or necessity in which a person isinfluenced, whether by the unlawful restrain of his liberty or byactual or threatened physical violence, to incur a civil liability orto commit an offense.
duressor: One who subjects another to duress Bacon.
durga: Same as Doorga.
durham: One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in thecounty of Durham, England. The Durham cattle are noted for theirbeef-producing quality.
during: In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as,during life; during the space of a year.
durio: A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of theIndian Archipelago. It bears the durian.
durometer: An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially,an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails andthe like.
durous: Hard. [Obs. & R.]
durra: A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introducedinto the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- calledalso Indian millet, and Guinea corn. [Written also dhoorra, dhurra,doura, etc.]
durst: of Dare. See Dare, v. i.
durukuli: A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecustrivirgatus). [Written also douroucouli.]
durylic: Pertaining to, allied to, or derived from, durene; as, durylicacid.
duse: A demon or spirit. See Deuce.
dusk: Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black;dusky.A pathless desert, dusk with horrid shades. Milton.
dusken: To make dusk or obscure. [R.]Not utterly defaced, but only duskened. Nicolls.
duskily: In a dusky manner. Byron.
duskiness: The state of being dusky.
duskish: Somewhat dusky. " Duskish smoke." Spenser.-- Dusk"ish*ly, adv.-- Dusk"ish*ness, n.
duskness: Duskiness. [R.] Sir T. Elyot.
dust: Coined money; cash. Down with the dust, deposit the cash; paydown the money. [Slang] "My lord, quoth the king, presently deposityour hundred pounds in gold, or else no going hence all the days ofyour life. . . . The Abbot down with his dust, and glad he escapedso, returned to Reading." Fuller.-- Dust brand (Bot.), a fungous plant (Ustilago Carbo); -- calledalso smut.-- Gold dust, fine particles of gold, such as are obtained in placermining; -- often used as money, being transferred by weight.-- In dust and ashes. See under Ashes.-- To bite the dust. See under Bite, v. t.-- To raise, or kick up, dust, to make a commotion. [Colloq.] -- Tothrow dust in one's eyes, to mislead; to deceive. [Colloq.]
dust-point: An old rural game.With any boy at dust-point they shall play. Peacham (1620).
dustbrush: A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust fromfurniture.
duster: A blowing machine for separating the flour from the bran.
dustiness: The state of being dusty.
dustless: Without dust; as a dustless path.
dustman: One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse. Gay.
dustpan: A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from thefloor.
dutch: Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants. Dutch auction.See under Auction.-- Dutch cheese, a small, pound, hard cheese, made from skim milk.-- Dutch clinker, a kind of brick made in Holland. It is yellowish,very hard, and long and narrow in shape.-- Dutch clover (Bot.), common white clover (Trifolium repens), theseed of which was largely imported into England from Holland.-- Dutch concert, a so-called concert in which all the singers singat the same time different songs. [Slang] -- Dutch courage, thecourage of partial intoxication. [Slang] Marryat.-- Dutch door, a door divided into two parts, horizontally, soarranged that the lower part can be shut and fastened, while theupper part remains open.-- Dutch foil, Dutch leaf, or Dutch gold, a kind of brass rich incopper, rolled or beaten into thin sheets, used in Holland toornament toys and paper; -- called also Dutch mineral, Dutch metal,brass foil, and bronze leaf.-- Dutch liquid (Chem.), a thin, colorless, volatile liquid,C2H4Cl2, of a sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor, producedby the union of chlorine and ethylene or olefiant gas; -- called alsoDutch oil. It is so called because discovered (in 1795) by anassociation of four Hollandish chemists. See Ethylene, and Olefiant.-- Dutch oven, a tin screen for baking before an open fire orkitchen range; also, in the United States, a shallow iron kettle forbaking, with a cover to hold burning coals.-- Dutch pink, chalk, or whiting dyed yellow, and used in distemper,and for paper staining. etc. Weale.-- Dutch rush (Bot.), a species of horsetail rush or Equisetum (E.hyemale) having a rough, siliceous surface, and used for scouring andpolishing; -- called also scouring rush, and shave grass. SeeEquisetum.-- Dutch tile, a glazed and painted ornamental tile, formerly muchexported, and used in the jambs of chimneys and the like.
dutchman: A native, or one of the people, of Holland. Dutchman's breeches(Bot.), a perennial American herb (Dicentra cucullaria), withpeculiar double-spurred flowers. See Illust. of Dicentra.-- Dutchman's laudanum (Bot.), a West Indian passion flower(Passiflora Murucuja); also, its fruit.-- Dutchman's pipe (Bot.), an American twining shrub (AristolochiaSipho). Its flowers have their calyx tubes curved like a tobaccopipe.
dutiable: Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods. [U.S.]All kinds of dutiable merchandise. Hawthorne.
dutied: Subjected to a duty. Ames.
duty: The efficiency of an engine, especially a steam pumping engine,as measured by work done by a certain quantity of fuel; usually, thenumber of pounds of water lifted one foot by one bushel of coal (94lbs. old standard), or by 1 cwt. (112 lbs., England, or 100 lbs.,United States).
duumvir: One of two Roman officers or magistrates united in the samepublic functions.
duumviral: Of or belonging to the duumviri or the duumvirate.
duumvirate: The union of two men in the same office; or the office,dignity, or government of two men thus associated, as in ancientRome.
dux: The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, theanswer being called the comes, or companion.
duykerbok: A small South African antelope (Cephalous mergens); -- calledalso impoon, and deloo.
duyoung: See Dugong.
dvergr: A dwarf supposed to dwell in rocks and hills and to be skillfulin working metals.
dwale: The deadly nightshade (Atropa Belladonna), having stupefyingqualities.
dwang: A piece of wood set between two studs, posts, etc., to stiffenand support them.
dwarf: An animal or plant which is much below the ordinary size of itsspecies or kind; especially, a diminutive human being.
dwarfish: Like a dwarf; below the common stature or size; very small;petty; as, a dwarfish animal, shrub.-- Dwarf"ish*ly, adv.-- Dwarf"ish*ness, n.
dwarfling: A diminutive dwarf.
dwarfy: Much undersized. [R.] Waterhouse.
dwell: To inhabit. [R.] Milton.
dweller: An inhabitant; a resident; as, a cave dweller. "Dwellers atJerusalem." Acts i. 19.
dwelling: Habitation; place or house in which a person lives; abode;domicile.Hazor shall be a dwelling for dragons. Jer. xlix. 33.God will deign To visit oft the dwellings of just men. Milton.Philip's dwelling fronted on the street. Tennyson.Dwelling house, a house intended to be occupied as a residence, indistinction from a store, office, or other building.-- Dwelling place, place of residence.
dwelt: of Dwell.
dwindle: To diminish; to become less; to shrink; to waste or consumeaway; to become degenerate; to fall away.Weary sennights nine times nine Shall he dwindle, peak and pine.Shak.Religious societies, though begun with excellent intentions, are saidto have dwindled into factious clubs. Swift.
dwindlement: The act or process of dwindling; a dwindling. [R.] Mrs.Oliphant.
dwine: To waste away; to pine; to languish. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]Gower.
dyad: An element, atom, or radical having a valence or combiningpower of two.
dyadic: Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements. Dyadicarithmetic, the same as binary arithmetic.
dyaks: ; sing. Dyak. (Ethnol.) The aboriginal and most numerousinhabitants of Borneo. They are partially civilized, but retain manybarbarous practices.
dyas: A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, thereconsisting of two principal groups.
dye: To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as bythe application of dyestuffs.Cloth to be dyed of divers colors. Trench.The soul is dyed by its thoughts. Lubbock.To dye in the grain, To dye in the wool (Fig.), to dye firmly; toimbue thoroughly.He might truly be termed a legitimate son of the revenue system dyedin the wool. Hawthorne.
dyehouse: A building in which dyeing is carried on.
dyeing: The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently anduniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc.
dyer: One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like. Dyer'sbroom, Dyer's rocket, Dyer's weed. See Dyer's broom, under Broom.
dyestuff: A material used for dyeing.
dyewood: Any wood from which coloring matter is extracted for dyeing.
dying: The act of expiring; passage from life to death; loss of life.
dyingly: In a dying manner; as if at the point of death. Beau. & Fl.
dyingness: The state of dying or the stimulation of such a state; extremelanguor; languishment. [R.]Tenderness becomes me best, a sort of dyingness; you see thatpicture, Foible, -- a swimmingness in the eyes; yes, I'll look so.Congreve.
dyke: See Dike. The spelling dyke is restricted by some to thegeological meaning.
dynactinometer: An instrument for measuring the intensity of the photogenic(light-producing) rays, and computing the power of object glasses.
dynam: A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound.See Foot pound. Whewell.
dynameter: An instrument for determining the magnifying power oftelescopes, consisting usually of a doubleimage micrometer applied tothe eye end of a telescope for measuring accurately the diameter ofthe image of the object glass there formed; which measurement,compared with the actual diameter of the glass, gives the magnifyingpower.
dynametrical: Pertaining to a dynameter.
dynamically: In accordance with the principles of dynamics or moving forces.J. Peile.
dynamics: That department of musical science which relates to, or treatsof, the power of tones.
dynamism: The doctrine of Leibnitz, that all substance involves force.
dynamist: One who accounts for material phenomena by a theory ofdynamics.Those who would resolve matter into centers of force may be said toconstitute the school of dynamists. Ward (Dyn. Sociol. ).
dynamitard: A political dynamiter.
dynamite: An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed bysome inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It issafer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion frommoderate shocks, or from spontaneous decomposition.
dynamiter: One who uses dynamite; esp., one who uses it for thedestruction of life and property.
dynamiting: Destroying by dynamite, for political ends.Dynamiting is not the American way. The Century.
dynamitism: The work of dynamiters.
dynamization: The act of setting free the dynamic powers of a medicine, as byshaking the bottle containing it.
dynamo: A dynamo-electric machine.
dynamo-electric: Pertaining to the development of electricity, especiallyelectrical currents, by power; producing electricity or electricalcurrents by mechanical power.
dynamograph: A dynamometer to which is attached a device for automaticallyregistering muscular power.
dynamometer: An apparatus for measuring force or power; especially, musculareffort of men or animals, or the power developed by a motor, or thatrequired to operate machinery.
dynamometry: The art or process of measuring forces doing work.
dynasta: A tyrant. [Obs.] Milton.
dynastic: Of or relating to a dynasty or line of kings. Motley.
dynastical: Dynastic.
dynastidan: One of a group of gigantic, horned beetles, including DynastusNeptunus, and the Hercules beetle (D. Hercules) of tropical America,which grow to be six inches in length.
dyne: The unit of force, in the C. G. S. (Centimeter Gram Second)system of physical units; that is, the force which, acting on a gramfor a second, generates a velocity of a centimeter per second.
dys-: An inseparable prefix, fr. the Greek ill, bad, hard, difficult,and the like; cf. the prefixes, Skr. dus-, Goth. tuz-, OHG. zur-, G.zer-, AS. to-, Icel. tor-, Ir. do-.
dysaesthesia: Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.
dyscrasia: An ill habit or state of the constitution; -- formerly regardedas dependent on a morbid condition of the blood and humors.
dyscrasite: A mineral consisting of antimony and silver.
dyscrasy: Dycrasia.Sin is a cause of dycrasies and distempers. Jer. Taylor.
dysentery: A disease attended with inflammation and ulceration of thecolon and rectum, and characterized by griping pains, constant desireto evacuate the bowels, and the discharge of mucus and blood.
dysgenesic: Not procreating or breeding freely; as, one race may bedysgenesic with respect to another. Darwin.
dysgenesis: A condition of not generating or breeding freely; infertility;a form homogenesis in which the hybrids are sterile among themselves,but are fertile with members of either parent race.
dyslogistic: Unfavorable; not commendatory; -- opposed to eulogistic.There is no course of conduct for which dyslogistic or eulogisticepithets may be found. J. F. Stephen.The paternity of dyslogistic -- no bantling, but now almost acentenarian -- is adjudged to that genius of common sense, JeremyBentham. Fitzed. Hall.
dysluite: A variety of the zinc spinel or gahnite.
dyslysin: A resinous substance formed in the decomposition of cholic acidof bile; -- so called because it is difficult to solve.
dysmenorrhea: Difficult and painful menstruation.
dysnomy: Bad legislation; the enactment of bad laws. Cockeram.
dysodile: An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetidodor when burning.
dyspeptic: A person afflicted with dyspepsia.
dyspeptone: An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and otherproteid substances by the action of gastric juice. Meissner.
dysphoria: Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness;dissatisfaction; the fidgets.
dyspnoic: Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspn
dysprosium: An element of the rare earth-group. Symbol Dy; at. wt., 162.5.
dysteleology: The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel tothat branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in viewof their being useless to the life of the organism.To the doctrine of dysteleology, or the denial of final causes, aproof of the real existence of such a thing as instinct mustnecessarily be fatal. Word (Dynamic Sociology).
dystocia: Difficult delivery pr parturition.
dystome: Cleaving with difficulty.
dysuric: Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury.
dziggetai: The kiang, a wild horse or wild ass of Thibet (Asinushemionus).
e: E is the third tone of the model diatonic scale. E (E flat) isa tone which is intermediate between D and E.
e-: A Latin prefix meaning out, out of, from; also, without. SeeEx-.
e-la: Originally, the highest note in the scale of Guido; hence,proverbially, any extravagant saying. "Why, this is above E-la!"Beau. & Fl.
eachwhere: Everywhere. [Obs.]The sky eachwhere did show full bright and fair. Spenser.
eadish: See Eddish.
eager: Same as Eagre.
eagerly: In an eager manner.
eagle: Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of thegenera Aquila and Haliæetus. The eagle is remarkable for strength,size, graceful figure, keenness of vision, and extraordinary flight.The most noted species are the golden eagle (Aquila chrysaëtus); theimperial eagle of Europe (A. mogilnik or imperialis); the Americanbald eagle (Haliæetus leucocephalus); the European sea eagle (H.albicilla); and the great harpy eagle (Thrasaetus harpyia). Thefigure of the eagle, as the king of birds, is commonly used as anheraldic emblem, and also for standards and emblematic devices. SeeBald eagle, Harpy, and Golden eagle.
eagle-eyed: Sharp-sighted as an eagle. "Inwardly eagle-eyed." Howell.
eagle-sighted: Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted. Shak.
eagle-winged: Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like aneagle. Shak.
eagless: A female or hen eagle. [R.] Sherwood.
eaglestone: A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of awalnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that theeagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the layingof her eggs; aëtites.
eaglet: A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle.
eaglewood: A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum.
eagrass: See Eddish. [Obs.]
eagre: A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height andviolence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonlycalled the bore. See Bore.
eale: Ale. [Obs.] Shak.
eame: Uncle. [Obs.] Spenser.
ean: To bring forth, as young; to yean. "In eaning time." Shak.
eanling: A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling. Shak.
ear: To take in with the ears; to hear. [Sportive] "I eared herlanguage." Two Noble Kinsmen.
ear-bored: Having the ear perforated.
ear-minded: Thinking chiefly or most readily through, or in terms relatedto, the sense of hearing; specif., thinking words as spoken, as aresult of familiarity with speech or of mental peculiarity; --opposed to eye-minded.
ear-piercer: The earwig.
ear-shell: A flattened marine univalve shell of the genus Haliotis; --called also sea-ear. See Abalone.
ear-splitting: Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splittingstrains.
earable: Arable; tillable. [Archaic]
earache: Ache or pain in the ear.
earal: Receiving by the ear. [Obs.] Hewyt.
earcap: A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.
earcockle: A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contractedgrain, or ear, is filled with minute worms.
eardrop: A species of primrose. See Auricula.
eardrum: The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear.
eared: Having external ears; having tufts of feathers resembling ears.Eared owl (Zoöl.), an owl having earlike tufts of feathers, as thelong-eared owl, and short-eared owl.-- Eared seal (Zoöl.), any seal of the family Otariidæ, includingthe fur seals and hair seals. See Seal.
eariness: Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural.[Written also eiryness.]The sense of eariness, as twilight came on. De Quincey.
earing: Coming into ear, as corn.
earl: A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above aviscount. The rank of an earl corresponds to that of a count (comte)in France, and graf in Germany. Hence the wife of an earl is stillcalled countess. See Count.
earl marshal: An officer of state in England who marshals and orders allgreat ceremonials, takes cognizance of matters relating to honor,arms, and pedigree, and directs the proclamation of peace and war.The court of chivalry was formerly under his jurisdiction, and he isstill the head of the herald's office or college of arms.
earlap: The lobe of the ear.
earldorman: Alderman. [Obs.]
earlduck: The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).
earles penny: Earnest money. Same as Arles penny. [Obs.]
earless: Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear. Pope.
earlet: An earring. [Obs.]The Ismaelites were accustomed to wear golden earlets. Judg. viii. 24(Douay version).
earliness: The state of being early or forward; promptness.
earlock: A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock.
early: Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early.Those that me early shall find me. Prov. viii. 17.You must wake and call me early. Tennyson.
earmark: To mark, as sheep, by cropping or slitting the ear.
earn: See Ern, n. Sir W. Scott.
earnest: Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness;intentness.Take heed that this jest do not one day turn to earnest. Sir P.Sidney.And given in earnest what I begged in jest. Shak.In earnest, serious; seriously; not in jest; earnestly.
earnestful: Serious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
earnestly: In an earnest manner.
earnestness: The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety.An honest earnestness in the young man's manner. W. Irving.
earnful: Full of anxiety or yearning. [Obs.] P. Fletcher.
earning: That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; moneyearned; -- used commonly in the plural.As to the common people, their stock is in their persons and in theirearnings. Burke.
earpick: An instrument for removing wax from the ear.
earreach: Earshot. Marston.
earring: An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of theear, with or without a pendant.
earsh: See Arrish.
earshot: Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard. Dryden.
earshrift: A nickname for auricular confession; shrift. [Obs.] Cartwright.
earsore: An annoyance to the ear. [R.]The perpetual jangling of the chimes . . . is no small earsore Sir T.Browne.
earst: See Erst. [Obs.] Spenser.
earth: To burrow. Tickell.
earth flax: A variety of asbestus. See Amianthus.
earth shine: See Earth light, under Earth.
earth-tongue: A fungus of the genus Geoglossum.
earthbag: A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair aparapet.
earthbank: A bank or mound of earth.
earthboard: The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over theearth; the moldboard.
earthbred: Low; grovelling; vulgar.
earthdin: An earthquake. [Obs.]
earthdrake: A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; adragon. W. Spalding.
earthen: Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other likesubstances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe.
earthen-hearted: Hard-hearted; sordid; gross. [Poetic] Lowell.
earthenware: Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made ofbaked clay. See Crockery, Pottery, Stoneware, and Porcelain.
earthfork: A pronged fork for turning up the earth.
earthiness: The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth;hence, grossness.
earthlight: The sunlight reflected from the earth to the moon, by which wesee faintly, when the moon is near the sun (either before or afternew moon), that part of the moon's disk unillumined by directsunlight, or "the old moon in the arms of the new."
earthliness: The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness;perishableness.
earthling: An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal.Earthings oft her deemed a deity. Drummond.
earthly: In the manner of the earth or its people; worldly.Took counsel from his guiding eyes To make this wisdom earthly wise.Emerson.
earthly-minded: Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; --opposed to spiritual-minded.-- Earth"ly-mind`ed*ness, n.
earthmad: The earthworm. [Obs.]The earthmads and all the sorts of worms . . . are without eyes.Holland.
earthnut: A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under oron the ground; as to:(a) The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosumand Carum Bulbocastanum.(b) The peanut. See Peanut.
earthpea: A species of pea (Amphicarpæa monoica). It is a climbingleguminous plant, with hairy underground pods.
earthquake: A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due tosubterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise. The waveof shock sometimes traverses half a hemisphere, destroying cities andmany thousand lives; -- called also earthdin, earthquave, andearthshock. Earthquake alarm, a bell signal constructed to operate onthe theory that a few seconds before the occurrence of an earthquakethe magnet temporarily loses its power.
earthquave: An earthquake.
earthshock: An earthquake.
earthstar: A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outercoating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms aball containing the dustlike spores.
earthwork: Any construction, whether a temporary breastwork or permanentfortification, for attack or defense, the material of which ischiefly earth.
earthworm: Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found indamp soil. One of the largest and most abundant species in Europe andAmerica is L. terrestris; many others are known; -- called alsoangleworm and dewworm.
earthy: Without luster, or dull and roughish to the touch; as, anearthy fracture.
earwax: See Cerumen.
earwig: Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belongingto the order Euplexoptera.
earwitness: A witness by means of his ears; one who is within hearing anddoes hear; a hearer. Fuller.
easeful: Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet;comfortable; restful. Shak.-- Ease"ful*ly, adv.-- Ease"ful*ness, n.
easel: A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, ornearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition.Easel picture, Easel piece, a painting of moderate size such as ismade while resting on an easel, as distinguished from a painting on awall or ceiling.
easeless: Without ease. Donne.
easement: A liberty, privilege, or advantage, which one proprietor has inthe estate of another proprietor, distinct from the ownership of thesoil, as a way, water course, etc. It is a species of what the civillaw calls servitude. Kent.
east: Formerly, the part of the United States east of the AlleghanyMountains, esp. the Eastern, or New England, States; now, commonly,the whole region east of the Mississippi River, esp. that which isnorth of Maryland and the Ohio River; -- usually with the definitearticle; as, the commerce of the East is not independent of theagriculture of the West. East by north, East by south, according tothe notation of the mariner's compass, that point which lies 11 --East-northeast, East-southeast, that which lie 22Illust. of Compass.
east indian: Belonging to, or relating to, the East Indies.-- n.
east-insular: Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian. [R.] Ogilvie.
easter: To veer to the east; -- said of the wind. Russell.
easterling: The smew.
easterly: Toward, or in the direction of, the east.
eastern church: That portion of the Christian church which prevails in thecountries once comprised in the Eastern Roman Empire and thecountries converted to Christianity by missionaries from them. Itsfull official title is The Orthodox Catholic Apostolic EasternChurch. It became estranged from the Western, or Roman, Church overthe question of papal supremacy and the doctrine of the filioque, anda separation, begun in the latter part of the 9th century, becamefinal in 1054. The Eastern Church consists of twelve (thirteen if theBulgarian Church be included) mutually independent churches(including among these the Hellenic Church, or Church of Greece, andthe Russian Church), using the vernacular (or some ancient form ofit) in divine service and varying in many points of detail, butstanding in full communion with each other and united as equals in agreat federation. The highest five authorities are the patriarch ofConstantinople, or ecumenical patriarch (whose position is not one ofsupremacy, but of precedence), the patriarch of Alexandria, thepatriarch of Jerusalem, the patriarch of Antioch, and the Holy Synodof Russia. The Eastern Church accepts the first seven ecumenicalcouncils (and is hence styled only schismatic, not heretical, by theRoman Catholic Church), has as its creed the Niceno-Constantinopolitan (without the later addition of the filioque,which, with the doctrine it represents, the church decisivelyrejects), baptizes infants with trine immersion, makes confirmationfollow immediately upon baptism, administers the Communion in bothkinds (using leavened bread) and to infants as well as adults,permits its secular clergy to marry before ordination and to keeptheir wives afterward, but not to marry a second time, selects itsbishops from the monastic clergy only, recognizes the offices ofbishop, priest, and deacon as the three necessary degrees of orders,venerates relics and icons, and has an elaborate ritual.
easternmost: Most eastern.
easting: The distance measured toward the east between two meridiansdrawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departureeastward made by a vessel.
easy: Not straitened as to money matters; as, the market is easy; --opposed to tight. Honors are easy (Card Playing), said when each sidehas an equal number of honors, in which case they are not counted aspoints.
easy-chair: An armichair for ease or repose. "Laugh . . . in Rabelais'easy-chair." Pope.
easy-going: Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive.
eatable: Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food;esculent; edible.-- n.
eatage: Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that ofaftermath.
eater: One who, or that which, eats.
eath: Easy or easily. [Obs.] "Eath to move with plaints." Fairfax.
eau de cologne: Same as Cologne.
eau de vie: French name for brandy. Cf. Aqua vitæ, under Aqua. Bescherelle.
eau forte: An etching or a print from an etched plate.
eavedrop: A drop from the eaves; eavesdrop. [R.] Tennyson.
eaves: The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, whichoverhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof.
eavesdrop: To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of ahouse, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, tolisten secretly to what is said in private.To eavesdrop in disguises. Milton.
eavesdropper: One who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of ahouse, to listen; hence, a secret listener.
eavesdropping: The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other placeswhere persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening towhat is said, and then tattling it abroad. The offense is indictableat common law. Wharton.
ebb: The European bunting.
ebb tide: The reflux of tide water; the retiring tide; -- opposed toflood tide.
ebionite: One of a sect of heretics, in the first centuries of thechurch, whose doctrine was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity.They denied the divinity of Christ, regarding him as an inspiredmessenger, and rejected much of the New Testament.
ebionitism: The system or doctrine of the Ebionites.
eblanin: See Pyroxanthin.
eblis: The prince of the evil spirits; Satan. [Written also Eblees.]
ebon: Ebony. [Poetic] "Framed of ebon and ivory." Sir W. Scott.
ebonist: One who works in ebony.
ebonite: A hard, black variety of vulcanite. It may be cut and polished,and is used for many small articles, as combs and buttons, and forinsulating material in electric apparatus.
ebonize: To make black, or stain black, in imitation of ebony; as, toebonize wood.
ebony: A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polishor gloss. The usual color is black, but it also occurs red or green.
ebracteate: Without bracts.
ebracteolate: Without bracteoles, or little bracts; -- said of a pedicel orflower stalk.
ebrauke: Hebrew. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ebriety: Drunkenness; intoxication by spirituous liquors; inebriety."Ruinous ebriety." Cowper.
ebrillade: A bridle check; a jerk of one rein, given to a horse when herefuses to turn.
ebriosity: Addiction to drink; habitual drunkenness.
ebrious: Inclined to drink to excess; intoxicated; tipsy. [R.] M.Collins.
ebulliate: To boil or bubble up. [Obs.] Prynne.
ebullient: Boiling up or over; hence, manifesting exhilaration orexcitement, as of feeling; effervescing. "Ebullient with subtlety."De Quincey.The ebullient enthusiasm of the French. Carlyle.
ebullioscope: An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids,especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by thetemperature at which it boils.
eburin: A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; --used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals,etc. Knight.
eburnation: A condition of bone cartilage occurring in certain diseases ofthese tissues, in which they acquire an unnatural density, and cometo resemble ivory.
eburnean: Made of or relating to ivory.
eburnification: The conversion of certain substances into others which have theappearance or characteristics of ivory.
eburnine: Of or pertaining to ivory. "[She] read from tablet eburnine."Sir W. Scott.
ecardines: An order of Brachiopoda; the Lyopomata. See Brachiopoda.
ecarte: A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which theplayers may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive othersfrom the pack.
ecaudate: Without a tail or spur.
ecballium: A genus of cucurbitaceous plants consisting of the singlespecies Ecballium agreste (or Elaterium), the squirting cucumber. Itsfruit, when ripe, bursts and violently ejects its seeds, togetherwith a mucilaginous juice, from which elaterium, a powerful catharticmedicine, is prepared.
ecbasis: A figure in which the orator treats of things according totheir events consequences.
ecbatic: Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished fromtelic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase so that itwas fulfilled," is ecbatic; if rendered "in order that it might be."etc., is telic.
ecbole: A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his ownwords.
ecbolic: A drug, as ergot, which by exciting uterine contractionspromotes the expulsion of the contents of the uterus.
ecboline: An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- sonamed from its power of producing abortion.
eccaleobion: A contrivance for hatching eggs by artificial heat.
ecce homo: A picture which represents the Savior as given up to the peopleby Pilate, and wearing a crown of thorns.
eccentric: Pertaining to an eccentric; as, the eccentric rod in a steamengine.
eccentrical: See Eccentric.
eccentrically: In an eccentric manner.Drove eccentrically here and there. Lew Wallace.
eccentricity: The ratio of the distance between the center and the focus ofan ellipse or hyperbola to its semi-transverse axis.
ecchymose: To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion ofblood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, theparts were much ecchymosed.
ecchymosis: A livid or black and blue spot, produced by the extravasationor effusion of blood into the areolar tissue from a contusion.
ecchymotic: Pertaining to ecchymosis.
eccle: The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall,yaffle. [Prov. Eng.]
ecclesia: The public legislative assembly of the Athenians.
ecclesial: Ecclesiastical. [Obs.] Milton.
ecclesiarch: An official of the Eastern Church, resembling a sacrist in theWestern Church.
ecclesiastes: One of the canonical books of the Old Testament.
ecclesiastic: Of or pertaining to the church. See Ecclesiastical."Ecclesiastic government." Swift.
ecclesiastical: Of or pertaining to the church; relating to the organization orgovernment of the church; not secular; as, ecclesiastical affairs orhistory; ecclesiastical courts.Every circumstance of ecclesiastical order and discipline was anabomination. Cowper.Ecclesiastical commissioners for England, a permanent commissionestablished by Parliament in 1836, to consider and report upon theaffairs of the Established Church.-- Ecclesiastical courts, courts for maintaining the discipline ofthe Established Church; -- called also Christian courts. [Eng.] --Ecclesiastical law, a combination of civil and canon law asadministered in ecclesiastical courts. [Eng.] -- Ecclesiastical modes(Mus.), the church modes, or the scales anciently used.-- Ecclesiastical States, the territory formerly subject to the Popeof Rome as its temporal ruler; -- called also States of the Church.
ecclesiastically: In an ecclesiastical manner; according ecclesiastical rules.
ecclesiasticism: Strong attachment to ecclesiastical usages, forms, etc.
ecclesiasticus: A book of the Apocrypha.
ecclesiological: Belonging to ecclesiology.
ecclesiologist: One versed in ecclesiology.
ecclesiology: The science or theory of church building and decoration.
eccritic: A remedy which promotes discharges, as an emetic, or acathartic.
ecderon: See Ecteron.-- Ec`der*on"ic, a.
ecdysis: The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer,as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, theecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation.
ecgonine: A colorless, crystalline, nitrogenous base, obtained by thedecomposition of cocaine.
echauguette: A small chamber or place of protection for a sentinel, usuallyin the form of a projecting turret, or the like. See Castle.
eche: Each. [Obs.] Chaucer.
echelon: An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawnup in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one inadvance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing.Also used adjectively; as, echelon distance. Upton (Tactics).
echidna: A monster, half maid and half serpent.
echidnine: The clear, viscid fluid secreted by the poison glands ofcertain serpents; also, a nitrogenous base contained in this, andsupposed to be the active poisonous principle of the virus. Brande &C.
echinid: Same as Echinoid.
echinidan: One the Echinoidea.
echinital: Of, or like, an echinite.
echinite: A fossil echinoid.
echinococcus: A parasite of man and of many domestic and wild animals,forming compound cysts or tumors (called hydatid cysts) in variousorgans, but especially in the liver and lungs, which often causedeath. It is the larval stage of the Tænia echinococcus, a smalltapeworm peculiar to the dog.
echinoderm: One of the Echinodermata.
echinodermal: Relating or belonging to the echinoderms.
echinodermata: One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom. By manywriters it was formerly included in the Radiata. [Written alsoEchinoderma.]
echinodermatous: Relating to Echinodermata; echinodermal.
echinoid: Of or pertaining to the Echinoidea.-- n.
echinoidea: The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins. Theyhave a calcareous, usually more or less spheroidal or disk-shaped,composed of many united plates, and covered with movable spines. SeeSpatangoid, Clypeastroid. [Written also Echinidea, and Echinoida.]
echinozoa: The Echinodermata.
echinulate: Set with small spines or prickles.
echinus: A hedgehog.
echiuroidea: A division of Annelida which includes the genus Echiurus andallies. They are often classed among the Gephyrea, and called thearmed Gephyreans.
echo: A nymph, the daughter of Air and Earth, who, for love ofNarcissus, pined away until nothing was left of her but her voice.Compelled me to awake the courteous Echo To give me answer from hermossy couch. Milton.Echo organ (Mus.), a set organ pipes inclosed in a box so as toproduce a soft, distant effect; -- generally superseded by the swell.-- Echo stop (Mus.), a stop upon a harpsichord contrived forproducing the soft effect of distant sound.-- To applaud to the echo, to give loud and continuous applause. M.Arnold.I would applaud thee to the very echo, That should applaud again.Shak.
echoer: One who, or that which, echoes.
echoless: Without echo or response.
echometer: A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, anddetermining their different, and the relation of their intervals. J.J. Rousseau.
echometry: Each one. [Obs.] Chaucer.
echopathy: A morbid condition characterized by automatic and purposelessrepetition of words or imitation of actions.
echoscope: An instrument for intensifying sounds produced by percussion ofthe thorax. Knight.
eclair: A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream.
eclaircise: To make clear; to clear up what is obscure or not understood;to explain.
eclaircissement: The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easilyunderstood; an explanation.The eclaircissement ended in the discovery of the informer.Clarendon.
eclampsia: A fancied perception of flashes of light, a symptom ofepilepsy; hence, epilepsy itself; convulsions.
eclampsy: Same as Eclampsia.
eclectic: One who follows an eclectic method.
eclectically: In an eclectic manner; by an eclectic method.
eclecticism: Theory or practice of an eclectic.
eclegm: A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups. John Quincy.
eclipse: An interception or obscuration of the light of the sun, moon,or other luminous body, by the intervention of some other body,either between it and the eye, or between the luminous body and thatilluminated by it. A lunar eclipse is caused by the moon passingthrough the earth's shadow; a solar eclipse, by the moon comingbetween the sun and the observer. A satellite is eclipsed by enteringthe shadow of its primary. The obscuration of a planet or star by themoon or a planet, though of the nature of an eclipse, is called anoccultation. The eclipse of a small portion of the sun by Mercury orVenus is called a transit of the planet.
ecliptic: A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle withthe equinoctial of about 23º 28'. It is the apparent path of the sun,or the real path of the earth as seen from the sun.
eclogite: A rock consisting of granular red garnet, light greensmaragdite, and common hornblende; -- so called in reference to itsbeauty.
eclogue: A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversingwith each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, fromwhich the modern usage of the word has been established.
economically: With economy; with careful management; with prudence inexpenditure.
economization: The act or practice of using to the best effect. [R.] H.Spenser.
economize: To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend withfrugality; as, to economize one's income. [Written also economise.]Expenses in the city were to be economized. Jowett (Thucyd. ).Calculating how to economize time. W. Irving.
ecorche: A manikin, or image, representing an animal, especially man,with the skin removed so that the muscles are exposed for purposes ofstudy.
ecossaise: A dancing tune in the Scotch style.
ecostate: Having no ribs or nerves; -- said of a leaf.
ecoute: One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis. Theyserve to annoy the enemy's miners.
ecphasis: An explicit declaration.
ecphonema: A breaking out with some interjectional particle.
ecphoneme: A mark (!) used to indicate an exclamation. G. Brown.
ecphonesis: An animated or passionate exclamation.The feelings by the ecphonesis are very various. Gibbs.
ecphractic: Serving to dissolve or attenuate viscid matter, and so toremove obstructions; deobstruent.-- n.
ecrasement: The operation performed with an écraseur.
ecraseur: An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations,the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect producedby the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarelyfollows.
ecru: Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk,linen, or the like.
ecstasy: A state which consists in total suspension of sensibility, ofvoluntary motion, and largely of mental power. The body is erect andinflexible; the pulsation and breathing are not affected. Mayne.
ecstatic: An enthusiast. [R.] Gauden.
ecstatically: Rapturously; ravishingly.
ectad: Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad. B. G.Wilder.
ectal: Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposedto ental. B. G. Wilder.
ectasia: A dilatation of a hollow organ or of a canal.
ectasis: The lengthening of a syllable from short to long.
ectental: Relating to, or connected with, the two primitive germ layers,the ectoderm and ectoderm; as, the "ectental line" or line ofjuncture of the two layers in the segmentation of the ovum. C. S.Minot.
ecteron: The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes;epithelium; ecderon.-- Ec`ter*on"ic, a.
ectethmoid: External to the ethmoid; prefrontal.
ecthlipsis: The elision of a final m, with the preceding vowel, before aword beginning with a vowel.
ecthoreum: The slender, hollow thread of a nettling cell or cnida. SeeNettling cell. [Written also ecthoræum.]
ecthyma: A cutaneous eruption, consisting of large, round pustules, uponan indurated and inflamed base. Dunglison.
ecto-: See Ect-.
ectobronchium: One of the dorsal branches of the main bronchi in the lungs ofbirds.
ectocyst: The outside covering of the Bryozoa.
ectoderm: Of or relating to the ectoderm.
ectolecithal: Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in aperipheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the centerof the egg; as, ectolecithal ova.
ectomere: The more transparent cells, which finally become external, inmany segmenting ova, as those of mammals.
ectoparasite: Any parasite which lives on the exterior of animals; -- opposedto endoparasite.-- Ec`to*par`a*sit"ic, a.
ectopia: A morbid displacement of parts, especially such as iscongenial; as, ectopia of the heart, or of the bladder.
ectopic: Out of place; congenitally displaced; as, an ectopic organ.
ectoplastic: Pertaining to, or composed of, ectoplasm.
ectoprocta: An order of Bryozoa in which the anus lies outside the circleof tentacles.
ectopy: Same as Ectopia.
ectorganism: An external parasitic organism.
ectosarc: The semisolid external layer of protoplasm in some unicellularorganisms, as the amoeba; ectoplasm; exoplasm.
ectosteal: Of or pertaining to ectostosis; as, ectosteal ossification.
ectostosis: A process of bone formation in which ossification takes placein the perichondrium and either surrounds or gradually replaces thecartilage.
ectozoic: See Epizoic.
ectropion: An unnatural eversion of the eyelids.
ectropium: Same as Ectropion.
ectrotic: Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything,especially of a disease.
ectypal: Copied, reproduced as a molding or cast, in contradistinctionfrom the original model.
ectypography: A method of etching in which the design upon the plate isproduced in relief.
ecurie: A stable.
eczema: An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by thepresence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, andthe discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leavingthe skin covered with crusts; -- called also tetter, milk crust, andsalt rheum.
eczematous: Pertaining to eczema; having the characteristic of eczema.
edacious: Given to eating; voracious; devouring.Swallowed in the depths of edacious Time. Carlyle.-- E*da"cious*ly, adv.-- E*da"cious*ness, n.
edacity: Greediness; voracity; ravenousness; rapacity. Bacon.
edda: The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinaviantribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas(legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes.
edder: An adder or serpent. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
eddish: Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish. [Eng.]
eddoes: The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.
eddy: To move as an eddy, or as in an eddy; to move in a circle.Eddying round and round they sink. Wordsworth.
eddy current: An induced electric current circulating wholly within a mass ofmetal; -- called also Foucault current.
eddy kite: A quadrilateral, tailless kite, with convex surfaces exposed tothe wind. This kite was extensively used by Eddy in his famousmeteorological experiments. It is now generally superseded by the boxkite.
edelweiss: A little, perennial, white, woolly plant (Leontopodiumalpinum), growing at high elevations in the Alps.
edema: Same as oedema.
eden: The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightfulregion or residence.
edenic: Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic. "Edenic joys." Mrs.Browning.
edenite: A variety of amphibole. See Amphibole.
edenized: Admitted to a state of paradisaic happiness. [R.] Davies (Wit'sPilgr. ).
edental: See Edentate, a.-- n. (Zoöl.)
edentalous: See Edentate, a.
edentata: An order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, andanteaters; -- called also Bruta. The incisor teeth are rarelydeveloped, and in some groups all the teeth are lacking.
edentate: Belonging to the Edentata.
edentated: Same as Edentate, a.
edentation: A depriving of teeth. [R.] Cockeram.
edentulous: Toothless.
edgebone: Same as Aitchbone.
edgeless: Without an edge; not sharp; blunt; obtuse; as, an edgelesssword or weapon.
edgelong: In the direction of the edge. [Obs.]Three hundred thousand pieces have you stuck Edgelong into theground. B. Jonson.
edgeshot: Having an edge planed, -- said of a board. Knight.
edgingly: Gradually; gingerly. [R.]
edgy: Having some of the forms, such as drapery or the like, toosharply defined. "An edgy style of sculpture." Hazlitt.
edh: The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter edh, capital form th in asimilar word
edibility: Suitableness for being eaten; edibleness.
edible: Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes.Bacon.-- n.
edibleness: Suitableness for being eaten.
edict: A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; theproclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by thevery act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Romanemperors; the edicts of the French monarch.It stands as an edict in destiny. Shak.Edict of Nantes (French Hist.), an edict issued by Henry IV. (A. D.1598), giving toleration to Protestants. Its revocation by Louis XIV.(A. D. 1685) was followed by terrible persecutions and theexpatriation of thousands of French Protestants.
edictal: Relating to, or consisting of, edicts; as, the Roman edictallaw.
edificant: Building; constructing. [R.] Dugard.
edificatory: Tending to edification. Bp. Hall.
edifice: A building; a structure; an architectural fabric; -- chieflyapplied to elegant houses, and other large buildings; as, a palace, achurch, a statehouse.
edificial: Pertaining to an edifice; structural.
edify: To improve. [R.] Swift.
edifying: Instructing; improving; as, an edifying conversation.-- Ed"i*fy`ing*ly, adv.-- Ed"i*fy`ing*ness, n.
edile: See Ædile.
edileship: The office of ædile. T. Arnold.
edingtonite: A grayish white zeolitic mineral, in tetragonal crystals. It isa hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta.
edit: To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare forpublication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, forpublication; as, to edit a newspaper.Philosophical treatises which have never been edited. Enfield.
edition de luxe: See Luxe.
editioner: An editor. [Obs.]
editor: One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends,revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., forpublication.
editorial: Of or pertaining to an editor; written or sanctioned by aneditor; as, editorial labors; editorial remarks. editorial content
editorially: In the manner or character of an editor or of an editorialarticle.
editorship: The office or charge of an editor; care and superintendence ofa publication.
editress: A female editor.
edituate: To guard as a churchwarden does. [Obs.] J. Gregory.
edomite: One of the descendants of Esau or Edom, the brother of Jacob;an Idumean.
edriophthalma: A group of Crustacea in which the eyes are without stalks; theArthrostraca. [Written also Edriophthalmata.]
edriophthalmous: Pertaining to the Edriophthalma.
educability: Capability of being educated.
educable: Capable of being educated. "Men are educable." M. Arnold.
educate: To bring as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or thetaste.
educated: Formed or developed by education; as, an educated man.
education: The act or process of educating; the result of educating, asdetermined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character,acquired; also, the act or process of training by a prescribed orcustomary course of study or discipline; as, an education for the baror the pulpit; he has finished his education.To prepare us for complete living is the function which education hasto discharge. H. Spenser.
educational: Of or pertaining to education. "His educational establishment."J. H. Newman.
educationist: One who is versed in the theories of, or who advocates andpromotes, education.
educative: Tending to educate; that gives education; as, an educativeprocess; an educative experience.
educator: One who educates; a teacher.
educe: To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce againstcounter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe aform from matter.The eternal art educing good from ill. Pope.They want to educe and cultivate what is best and noblest inthemselves. M. Arnold.
educible: Capable of being educed.
educt: That which is educed, as by analysis. Sir W. Hamilton.
eduction: The act of drawing out or bringing into view. Eduction pipe,and Eduction port. See Exhaust pipe and Exhaust port, under Exhaust,a.
eductive: Tending to draw out; extractive.
eductor: One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts.Stimulus must be called an eductor of vital ether. E. Darwin.
edulcorant: Having a tendency to purify or to sweeten by removing orcorrecting acidity and acrimony.
edulcorate: To free from acids, salts, or other soluble substances, bywashing; to purify. [R.]
edulcoration: The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, byaffusions of water. [R.] Ure.
edulcorative: Tending to
edulcorator: A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetenedliquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; adropping bottle.
edulious: Edible. [Obs.] "Edulious pulses." Sir T. Browne.
eel: An elongated fish of many genera and species. The common eelsof Europe and America belong to the genus Anguilla. The electricaleel is a species of Gymnotus. The so called vinegar eel is a minutenematode worm. See Conger eel, Electric eel, and Gymnotus.
eel-mother: The eelpout.
eelbuck: An eelpot or eel basket.
eelfare: A brood of eels. [Prov. Eng.]
eelgrass: A plant (Zostera marina), with very long and narrow leaves,growing abundantly in shallow bays along the North Atlantic coast.
eelpot: A boxlike structure with funnel-shaped traps for catching eels;an eelbuck.
eelspear: A spear with barbed forks for spearing eels.
een: The old plural of Eye.And eke with fatness swollen were his een. Spenser.
eerily: In a strange, unearthly way.
eerisome: Causing fear; eerie. [Scot.]
eet: of Eat. Chaucer.
effable: Capable of being uttered or explained; utterable. Barrow.
effaceable: Capable of being effaced.
effacement: The act if effacing; also, the result of the act.
effascinate: To charm; to bewitch. [Obs.] Heywood.
effascination: A charming; state of being bewitched or deluded. [Obs.]
effect: Goods; movables; personal estate; -- sometimes used to embracereal as well as personal property; as, the people escaped from thetown with their effects. For effect, for an exaggerated impression orexcitement.-- In effect, in fact; in substance. See 8, above.-- Of no effect, Of none effect, To no effect, or Without effect,destitute of results, validity, force, and the like; vain; fruitless."Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition." Markvii. 13. "All my study be to no effect." Shak.-- To give effect to, to make valid; to carry out in practice; topush to its results.-- To take effect, to become operative, to accomplish aims. Shak.
effecter: One who effects.
effectible: Capable of being done or achieved; practicable; feasible. SirT. Browne.
effection: Creation; a doing. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
effective: Having the power to produce an effect or effects; producing adecided or decisive effect; efficient; serviceable; operative; as, aneffective force, remedy, speech; the effective men in a regiment.They are not effective of anything, nor leave no work behind them.Bacon.Whosoever is an effective, real cause of doing his heighbor wrong, iscriminal. Jer. Taylor.
effectively: With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly.
effectiveness: The quality of being effective.
effectless: Without effect or advantage; useless; bootless. Shak.-- Ef*fect"less*ly, adv.
effector: An effecter. Derham.
effectual: Producing, or having adequate power or force to produce, anintended effect; adequate; efficient; operative; decisive. Shak.Effectual steps for the suppression of the rebellion. Macaulay.Effectual calling (Theol.), a doctrine concerning the work of theHoly Spirit in producing conviction of sin and acceptance ofsalvation by Christ, -- one of the five points of Calvinism. SeeCalvinism.
effectualness: The quality of being effectual.
effectuate: To bring to pass; to effect; to achieve; to accomplish; tofulfill.A fit instrument to effectuate his desire. Sir P. Sidney.In order to effectuate the thorough reform. G. T. Curtis.
effectuation: Act of effectuating.
effectuously: Effectively. [Obs.]
effeminacy: Characteristic quality of a woman, such as softness,luxuriousness, delicacy, or weakness, which is unbecoming a man;womanish delicacy or softness; -- used reproachfully of men. Milton.
effeminate: To make womanish; to make soft and delicate; to weaken.It will not corrupt or effeminate children's minds. Locke.
effeminateness: The state of being effeminate; unmanly softness. Fuller.
effemination: Effeminacy; womanishness. [Obs.] Bacon.
effeminize: To make effeminate. [Obs.]
effendi: Master; sir; -- a title of a Turkish state official and man oflearning, especially one learned in the law.
efferent: An efferent duct or stream.
efferous: Like a wild beast; fierce. [Obs.]
effervesce: A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid whichtakes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form,producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of acarbonate with citric acid.
effervescent: Gently boiling or bubbling, by means of the disengagement ofgas
effervescible: Capable of effervescing.
effervescive: Tending to produce effervescence. "An effervescive force."Hickok.
effet: The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt.
effete: No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit,as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy;incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile.Effete results from virile efforts. Mrs. BrowningIf they find the old governments effete, worn out, . . . they mayseek new ones. Burke.
efficacious: Possessing the quality of being effective; productive of, orpowerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an efficacious law.
efficacity: Efficacy. [R.] J. Fryth.
efficacy: Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent orforce; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy ofmedicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer. "Ofnoxious efficacy." Milton.
efficient: Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to bewhat it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable;characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficientofficer, power.The efficient cause is the working cause. Wilson.
efficiently: With effect; effectively.
effierce: To make fierce. [Obs.] Spenser.
effigial: Relating to an effigy.
effigiate: To form as an effigy; hence, to fashion; to adapt.[He must] effigiate and conform himself to those circumstances. Jer.Taylor.
effigiation: The act of forming in resemblance; an effigy. Fuller.
effigies: See Effigy. Dryden.
effigy: The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether afull figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied tosculptured likenesses, as those on monuments, or to those of theheads of princes on coins and medals, sometimes applied to portraits.To burn, or To hang, in effigy, to burn or to hang an image orpicture of a person, as a token of public odium.
efflagitate: To ask urgently. [Obs.] Cockeram.
efflate: To fill with breath; to puff up. Sir T. Herbert.
efflation: The act of filling with wind; a breathing or puffing out; apuff, as of wind.A soft efflation of celestial fire. Parnell.
effloresce: To change on the surface, or throughout, to a whitish, mealy,or crystalline powder, from a gradual decomposition, esp. from theloss of water, on simple exposure to the air; as, Glauber's salts,and many others, effloresce.
efflorescence: Flowering, or state of flowering; the blooming of flowers;blowth.
efflorescency: The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence.
efflower: To remove the epidermis of (a skin) with a concave knife, bluntin its middle part, -- as in making chamois leather.
effluency: Effluence.
effluent: Flowing out; as, effluent beams. Parnell.
effluviable: Capable of being given off as an effluvium. "Effluviablematter." Boyle.
effluvial: Belonging to effluvia.
effluviate: To give forth effluvium. [R.] "An effluviating power." Boyle.
effluvium: Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by thesense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation; as, theeffluvium from diseased or putrefying bodies, or from ill drainage.
efflux: To run out; to flow forth; to pass away. [Obs.] Boyle.
effodient: Digging up.
efforce: To force; to constrain; to compel to yield. [Obs.] Spenser.
efform: To form; to shape. [Obs.]Efforming their words within their lips. Jer. Taylor.
efformation: The act of giving shape or form. [Obs.] Ray.
effort: A force acting on a body in the direction of its motion.Rankine.
effortless: Making no effort. Southey.
effossion: A digging out or up. [R.] "The effossion of coins." Arbuthnot.
effranchise: To enfranchise.
effray: To frighten; to scare. [Obs.] Spenser.
effrayable: Frightful. [Obs.] Harvey.
effrenation: Unbridled license; unruliness. [Obs.] Cockeram.
effront: To give assurance to. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
effrontery: Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing thebounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shamelessboldness; barefaced assurance.Corruption lost nothing of its effrontery. Bancroft.
effrontit: Marked by impudence. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
effrontuously: Impudently. [Obs.] R. North.
effulge: To cause to shine with abundance of light; to radiate; to beam.[R.]His eyes effulging a peculiar fire. Thomson.
effulgence: The state of being effulgent; extreme brilliancy; a flood oflight; great luster or brightness; splendor.The effulgence of his glory abides. Milton.The bright and the balmy effulgence of morn. Beattie.
effulgent: Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright;splendid. "Effulgent rays of light." Cowper.
effulgently: In an effulgent manner.
effumability: The capability of flying off in fumes or vapor. [Obs.] Boyle.
effume: To breathe or puff out. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
effund: To pour out. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
effuse: Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuseinflorescence. Loudon.
effusive: Pouring out; pouring forth freely. "Washed with the effusivewave." Pope. Effusive rocks (Geol.), volcanic rocks, in distinctionfrom so-called intrusive, or plutonic, rocks.-- Ef*fu"sive*ly, adv.-- Ef*fu"sive*ness, n.
efreet: See Afrit.
eft: Again; afterwards; soon; quickly. [Obs.]I wold never eft comen into the snare. Spenser.
egad: An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc.
egal: Equal; impartial. [Obs.] Shak.
egality: Equality. Chaucer. Tennyson.
egean: See Ægean.
egence: The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want. [R.] J.Grote.
eger: An impetuous flood; a bore. See Eagre.
egerminate: To germinate. [Obs.]
egest: To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as theindigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete bythe lungs, skin, or kidneys.
egesta: That which is egested or thrown off from the body by thevarious excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta.
egestion: Act or process of egesting; a voiding. Sir M. Hale.
egg: The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and otherbirds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded bythe "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.
egg squash: A variety of squash with small egg-shaped fruit.
egg-bird: A species of tern, esp. the sooty tern (Sterna fuliginosa) ofthe West Indies. In the Bahama Islands the name is applied to thetropic bird, Phaëthon flavirostris.
egg-cup: A cup used for holding an egg, at table.
egg-glass: A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for markingtime in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, attable.
egg-shaped: Resembling an egg in form; ovoid.
eggar: Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as,the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe.
eggement: Instigation; incitement. [Obs.] Chaucer.
egger: One who gathers eggs; an eggler.
eggery: A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; anest of eggs. [R.]
egghot: A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale. Lamb.
eggler: One who gathers, or deals in, eggs.
eggnog: A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and(usually) wine or spirits.
eggplant: A plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied tothe tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shapedsomewhat like an egg; mad-apple.
eggshell: A smooth, white, marine, gastropod shell of the genus Ovulum,resembling an egg in form.
eghen: Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer.
egilopical: Pertaining to, of the nature of, or affected with, an ægilops,or tumor in the corner of the eye.
egilops: See Ægilops.
eglatere: Eglantine. [Obs. or R.] [Written also eglantere.] Tennyson.
egling: The European perch when two years old. [Prov. Eng.]
eglomerate: To unwind, as a thread from a ball. [R.]
ego: The conscious and permanent subject of all psychicalexperiences, whether held to be directly known or the product ofreflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego.
egoical: Pertaining to egoism. [R.]
egoism: The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples ofDescartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements ofknowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or providesfor.
egoist: A believer in egoism.
egoistically: In an egoistic manner.
egoity: Personality. [R.] Swift.
egomism: Egoism. [R.] A. Baxter.
egophonic: Belonging to, or resembling, egophony.
egophony: The sound of a patient's voice so modified as to resemble thebleating of a goat, heard on applying the ear to the chest in certaindiseases within its cavity, as in pleurisy with effusion.
egotheism: The deification of self. [R.]
egotism: The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, aspeaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self-praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or paradingone's own doings. The word is also used in the sense of egoism.His excessive egotism, which filled all objects with himself.Hazlitt.
egotist: One addicted to egotism; one who speaks much of himself ormagnifies his own achievements or affairs.
egotistically: With egotism.
egotize: To talk or write as an egotist. Cowper.
egranulose: Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions. R.Brown.
egre: See Eager, and Eagre. [Obs.]
egregious: Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); --formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joinedwith words having a bad sense; as, an egregious rascal; an egregiousass; an egregious mistake.The egregious impudence of this fellow. Bp. Hall.His [Wyclif's] egregious labors are not to be neglected. Milton.
egregiously: Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated.
egregiousness: The state of being egregious.
egremoin: Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria). [Obs.] Chaucer.
egress: The passing off from the sun's disk of an inferior planet, in atransit.
egression: The act of going; egress. [R.] B. Jonson.
egressor: One who goes out. [R.]
egret: The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on theback. They are generally white. Among the best known species are theAmerican egret (Ardea, or Herodias, egretta); the great egret (A.alba); the little egret (A. garzetta), of Europe; and the Americansnowy egret (A. candidissima).A bunch of egrets killed for their plumage. G. W. Cable.
egrette: Same as Egret, n.,
egrimony: The herb agrimony. [Obs.]
egriot: A kind of sour cherry. Bacon.
egritude: Sickness; ailment; sorrow. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
egyptian: Pertaining to Egypt, in Africa. Egyptian bean. (Bot.) (a) Thebeanlike fruit of an aquatic plant (Nelumbium speciosum), somewhatresembling the water lily. (b) See under Bean,
egyptize: To give an Egyptian character or appearance to. Fairbairn.
egyptological: Of, pertaining to, or devoted to, Egyptology.
egyptology: The science or study of Egyptian antiquities, esp. thehieroglyphics.
eh: An expression of inquiry or slight surprise.
ehlite: A mineral of a green color and pearly luster; a hydrousphosphate of copper.
eider: Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateriamollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America,and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which isan article of commerce; -- called also eider duck. The American eider(S. Dresseri), the king eider (S. spectabilis), and the spectacledeider (Arctonetta Fischeri) are related species. Eider down. Etym:[Cf. Icel. æ\'ebardun, Sw. eiderdun, Dan. ederduun.] Down of theeider duck, much sought after as an article of luxury.
eidograph: An instrument for copying drawings on the same or a differentscale; a form of the pantograph.
eidolon: An image or representation; a form; a phantom; an apparition.Sir W. Scott.
eigh: An exclamation expressing delight.
eight: An island in a river; an ait. [Obs.] "Osiers on their eights."Evelyn.
eighteen: Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds.
eighteenmo: See Octodecimo.
eightetethe: Eighteenth. [Obs.]
eightfold: Eight times a quantity.
eighth: The interval of an octave.
eighthly: As the eighth in order.
eightieth: The quotient of a unit divided by eighty; one of eighty equalparts.
eightling: A compound or twin crystal made up of eight individuals.
eightscore: Eight times twenty; a hundred and sixty.
eighty: Eight times ten; fourscore.
eigne: Eldest; firstborn. Blackstone.
eiking: See Eking.
eikon: An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, andrarely for a work of art.
eikonogen: The sodium salt of a sulphonic acid of a naphthol,C10H5(OH)(NH2)SO3Na used as a developer.
eikosane: A solid hydrocarbon, C20H42, of the paraffine series, ofartificial production, and also probably occurring in petroleum.
eikosylene: A liquid hydrocarbon, C20H38, of the acetylene series, obtainedfrom brown coal.
eild: Age. [Obs.] Fairfax.
eire: Air. [Obs.] Chaucer.
eirenarch: A justice of the peace; irenarch.
eirenic: Pacific. See Irenic.
eirie: See Aerie, and Eyrie.
eisel: Vinegar; verjuice. [Obs.] Sir T. More.
eisteddfod: Am assembly or session of the Welsh bards; an annual congressof bards, minstrels and literati of Wales, -- being a patrioticrevival of the old custom.
either: precedes two, or more, coördinate words or phrases, and isintroductory to an alternative. It is correlative to or.Either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, orperadventure he sleepeth. 1 Kings xviii. 27.Few writers hesitate to use either in what is called a triplealternative; such as, We must either stay where we are, proceed, orrecede. Latham.
ejaculate: To utter ejaculations; to make short and hasty exclamations.[R.] "Ejaculating to himself." Sir W. Scott.
ejaculation: The act of ejecting or suddenly throwing, as a fluid from aduct.
ejaculator: A muscle which helps ejaculation.
eject: To cast out; to evict; to dispossess; as, to eject tenants froman estate.
ejecta: Matter ejected; material thrown out; as, the ejecta of avolcano; the ejecta, or excreta, of the body.
ejection: The act or process of discharging anything from the body,particularly the excretions.
ejectment: A species of mixed action, which lies for the recovery ofpossession of real property, and damages and costs for the wrongfulwithholding of it. Wharton.
ejector: A jet jump for lifting water or withdrawing air from a space.Ejector condenser (Steam Engine), a condenser in which the vacuum ismaintained by a jet pump.
ejoo: Gomuti fiber. See Gomuti.
ejulation: A wailing; lamentation. [Obs.] "Ejulation in the pangs ofdeath." Philips.
ekaluminium: The name given to a hypothetical element, -- later discoveredand called gallium. See Gallium, and cf. Ekabor.
ekasilicon: The name of a hypothetical element predicted and afterwardsdiscovered and named germanium; -- so called because it was a missinganalogue of the silicon group. See Germanium, and cf. Ekkabor.
eke: To increase; to add to; to augment; -- now commonly used without, the notion conveyed being to add to, or piece out by alaborious, inferior, or scanty addition; as, to eke out a scantysupply of one kind with some other. "To eke my pain." Spenser.He eked out by his wits an income of barely fifty pounds. Macaulay.
ekebergite: A variety of scapolite.
ekename: An additional or epithet name; a nickname. [Obs.]
elaborate: Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executedwith exactness or painstaking; as, an elaborate discourse; anelaborate performance; elaborate research.Drawn to the life in each elaborate page. Waller.
elaborated: developed or executed with care and in minute detail; as, thecarefully elaborated theme.Syn. -- detailed, elaborate.[WordNet 1.5]
elaboration: The natural process of formation or assimilation, performed bythe living organs in animals and vegetables, by which a crudesubstance is changed into something of a higher order; as, theelaboration of food into chyme; the elaboration of chyle, or sap, ortissues.
elaborative: Serving or tending to elaborate; constructing with labor andminute attention to details. Elaborative faculty (Metaph.), theintellectual power of discerning relations and of viewing objects bymeans of, or in, relations; the discursive faculty; thought.
elaborator: One who, or that which, elaborates.
elaboratory: Tending to elaborate.
elaeagnus: A genus of shrubs or small trees, having the foliage coveredwith small silvery scales; oleaster.
elaeis: A genus of palms.
elaeolite: A variety of hephelite, usually massive, of greasy luster, andgray to reddish color. Elæolite syenite, a kind of syenitecharacterized by the presence of elæolite.
elaeoptene: The more liquid or volatile portion of certain oily substance,as distinguished from stearoptene, the more solid parts. [Writtenalso elaoptene.]
elaidate: A salt of elaidic acid.
elaidic: Relating to oleic acid, or elaine. Elaidic acid (Chem.), afatty acid isomeric with oleic acid, and obtained from it by theaction of nitrous acid.
elaidin: A solid isomeric modification of olein.
elaiodic: Derived from castor oil; ricinoleic; as, elaiodic acid. [R.]
elaiometer: An apparatus for determining the amount of oil contained in anysubstance, or for ascertaining the degree of purity of oil.
elamite: A dweller in Flam (or Susiana), an ancient kingdom ofSouthwestern Asia, afterwards a province of Persia.
elamping: Shining. [Obs.] G. Fletcher.
elan: Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm.
elance: To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart. [R.]While thy unerring hand elanced . . . a dart. Prior.
eland: A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna). It isvalued both for its hide and flesh, and is rapidly disappearing inthe settled districts; -- called also Cape elk.
elanet: A kite of the genus Elanus.
elaolite: See Elæolite.
elaoptene: See Elæoptene.
elaphine: Pertaining to, resembling, or characteristic of, the stag, orCervus elaphus.
elaphure: A species of deer (Elaphurus Davidianus) found in china. Itabout four feet high at the shoulder and has peculiar antlers.
elapidation: A clearing away of stones. [R.]
elapine: Like or pertaining to the Elapidæ, a family of poisonousserpents, including the cobras. See Ophidia.
elaps: A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the OldWorld. Many species are known. See Coral snake, under Coral.
elapse: To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- usedchiefly in reference to time.Eight days elapsed; at length a pilgrim came. Hoole.
elapsion: The act of elapsing. [R.]
elaqueate: To disentangle. [R.]
elasipoda: An order of holothurians mostly found in the deep sea. They areremarkable for their bilateral symmetry and curious forms. [Writtenalso Elasmopoda.]
elasmobranch: Of or pertaining to the Elasmobranchii.-- n.
elasmobranchiate: Of or pertaining to Elasmobranchii.-- n.
elasmobranchii: A subclass of fishes, comprising the sharks, the rays, and theChimæra. The skeleton is mainly cartilaginous.
elasmosaurus: An extinct, long-necked, marine, cretaceous reptile fromKansas, allied to Plesiosaurus.
elastic: An elastic woven fabric, as a belt, braces or suspenders, etc.,made in part of India rubber. [Colloq.]
elastical: Elastic. [R.] Bentley.
elastically: In an elastic manner; by an elastic power; with a spring.
elasticness: The quality of being elastic; elasticity.
elastin: A nitrogenous substance, somewhat resembling albumin, whichforms the chemical basis of elastic tissue. It is very insoluble inmost fluids, but is gradually dissolved when digested with eitherpepsin or trypsin.
elatedly: With elation.
elatedness: The state of being elated.
elater: One who, or that which, elates.
elaterite: A mineral resin, of a blackish brown color, occurring in soft,flexible masses; -- called also mineral caoutchouc, and elasticbitumen.
elaterium: A cathartic substance obtained, in the form of yellowish orgreenish cakes, as the dried residue of the juice of the wild orsquirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly called MomordicaElaterium).
elaterometer: Same as Elatrometer.
elatery: Acting force; elasticity. [Obs.] Ray.
elation: A lifting up by success; exaltation; inriation with pride ofprosperity. "Felt the elation of triumph." Sir W. Scott.
elative: Raised; lifted up; -- a term applied to what is also called theabsolute superlative, denoting a high or intense degree of a quality,but not excluding the idea that an equal degree may exist in othercases.
elatrometer: An instrument for measuring the degree of rarefaction of aircontained in the receiver of an air pump. [Spelt also elaterometer.]
elayl: Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from itsforming an oil combining with chlorine. [Written also elayle.] SeeEthylene.
elbow: A sharp angle in any surface of wainscoting or other woodwork;the upright sides which flank any paneled work, as the sides ofwindows, where the jamb makes an elbow with the window back. Gwilt.
elbowboard: The base of a window casing, on which the elbows may rest.
elbowchair: A chair with arms to support the elbows; an armchair. Addison.
elbowroom: Room to extend the elbows on each side; ample room for motionor action; free scope. "My soul hath elbowroom." Shak.Then came a stretch of grass and a little more elbowroom. W. G.Norris.
elcaja: An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica). The fruit, which isemetic, is sometimes employed in the composition of an ointment forthe cure of the itch.
elcesaite: One of a sect of Asiatic Gnostics of the time of the EmperorTrajan.
eld: Old. [Obs.] Chaucer.
elder: A clergyman authorized to administer all the sacraments; as, atraveling elder. Presiding elder (Meth. Ch.), an elder commissionedby a bishop to have the oversight of the churches and preachers in acertain district.-- Ruling elder, a lay presbyter or member of a Presbyterian churchsession. Schaff.
elderberry: The berrylike drupe of the elder. That of the Old World elder(Sambucus nigra) and that of the American sweet elder (S. Canadensis)are sweetish acid, and are eaten as a berry or made into wine.
elderish: Somewhat old; elderly. [R.]
elderly: Somewhat old; advanced beyond middle age; bordering on old age;as, elderly people.
eldern: Made of elder. [Obs.]He would discharge us as boys do eldern guns. Marston.
elderwort: Danewort.
elding: Fuel. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
eldritch: Hideous; ghastly; as, an eldritch shriek or laugh. [Local,Eng.]
eleatic: Of or pertaining to a certain school of Greek philosophers whotaught that the only certain science is that which owes nothing tothe senses, and all to the reason.-- n.
eleaticism: The Eleatic doctrine.
elecampane: A large, coarse herb (Inula Helenium), with composite yellowflowers. The root, which has a pungent taste, is used as a tonic, andwas formerly of much repute as a stomachic.
elect: Chosen as the object of mercy or divine favor; set apart toeternal life. "The elect angels." 1 Tim. v. 21.
electant: One who has the power of choosing; an elector. [R.]
electary: See Electuary.
electic: See Eclectic.
electicism: See Eclecticism.
election: Divine choice; predestination of individuals as objects ofmercy and salvation; -- one of the "five points" of Calvinism.There is a remnant according to the election of grace. Rom. xi. 5.
electioneer: To make interest for a candidate at an election; to use artsfor securing the election of a candidate.A master of the whole art of electioneering. Macaulay.
electioneerer: One who electioneers.
elective: In an American college, an optional study or course of study.[Colloq.]
electively: In an elective manner; by choice.
elector: Pertaining to an election or to electors.In favor of the electoral and other princes. Burke.Electoral college, the body of princes formerly entitled to elect theEmperor of Germany; also, a name sometimes given, in the UnitedStates, to the body of electors chosen by the people to elect thePresident and Vice President.
electorality: The territory or dignity of an elector; electorate. [R.] Sir H.Wotton.
electoress: An electress. Bp. Burnet.
electorial: Electoral. Burke.
electorship: The office or status of an elector.
electrepeter: An instrument used to change the direction of electriccurrents; a commutator. [R.]
electress: The wife or widow of an elector in the old German empire.Burke.
electric: A nonconductor of electricity, as amber, glass, resin, etc.,employed to excite or accumulate electricity.
electrically: In the manner of electricity, or by means of it; thrillingly.
electricalness: The state or quality of being electrical.
electrician: An investigator of electricity; one versed in the science ofelectricity.
electrifiable: Capable of receiving electricity, or of being charged with it.
electrification: The act of electrifying, or the state of being charged withelectricity.
electrify: To become electric.
electrition: The recognition by an animal body of the electrical conditionof external objects.
electrization: The act of electrizing; electrification.
electrize: To electricity. Eng. Cyc.
electrizer: One who, or that which, electrizes.
electro: An electrotype.
electro-: A prefix or combining form signifying pertaining toelectricity, produced by electricity, producing or employingelectricity, etc.; as, electro-negative; electro-dynamic; electro-magnet.
electro-ballistic: Pertaining to electro-ballistics.
electro-ballistics: The art or science of measuring the force or velocity ofprojectiles by means of electricity.
electro-biologist: One versed in electro-biology.
electro-bioscopy: A method of determining the presence or absence of life in ananimal organism with a current of electricity, by noting the presenceor absence of muscular contraction.
electro-capillarity: The occurrence or production of certain capillary effects bythe action of an electrical current or charge.
electro-capillary: Pert. to, or caused by, electro-capillarity.
electro-chemical: Of or pertaining to electro-chemistry. Ure.
electro-chemistry: That branch of science which treats of the relation ofelectricity to chemical changes.
electro-chronograph: An instrument for obtaining an accurate record of the time atwhich any observed phenomenon occurs, or of its duration. It has anelectro-magnetic register connected with a clock. See Chronograph.
electro-chronographic: Belonging to the electro-chronograph, or recorded by the aid ofit.
electro-dynamometer: An instrument for measuring the strength of electro-dynamiccurrents.
electro-engraving: The art or process of engraving by means of electricity.
electro-etching: A mode of etching upon metals by electrolytic action.
electro-gilding: The art or process of gilding copper, iron, etc., by means ofvoltaic electricity.
electro-gilt: Gilded by means of voltaic electricity.
electro-kinetic: Of or pertaining to electro-kinetics.
electro-kinetics: That branch of electrical science which treats of electricityin motion.
electro-magnet: A mass, usually of soft iron, but sometimes of some othermagnetic metal, as nickel or cobalt, rendered temporarily magnetic bybeing placed within a coil of wire through which a current ofelectricity is passing. The metal is generally in the form of a bar,either straight, or bent into the shape of a horseshoe.
electro-magnetic: Of, Pertaining to, or produced by, magnetism which is developedby the passage of an electric current. Electro-magnetic engine, anengine in which the motive force is electro-magnetism.-- Electro-magnetic theory of light (Physics), a theory of lightwhich makes it consist in the rapid alternation of transient electriccurrents moving transversely to the direction of the ray.
electro-magnetism: The magnetism developed by a current of electricity; thescience which treats of the development of magnetism by means ofvoltaic electricity, and of the properties or actions of the currentsevolved.
electro-metallurgy: The act or art precipitating a metal electro-chemical action,by which a coating is deposited, on a prepared surface, as inelectroplating and electrotyping; galvanoplasty.
electro-motion: The motion of electricity or its passage from one metal toanother in a voltaic circuit; mechanical action produced by means ofelectricity.
electro-motive: Producing electro-motion; producing, or tending to produce,electricity or an electric current; causing electrical action oreffects. Electro-motive force (Physics), the force which produces, ortends to produce, electricity, or an electric current; sometimes usedto express the degree of electrification as equivalent to potential,or more properly difference of potential.
electro-muscular: Pertaining the reaction (contraction) of the muscles underelectricity, or their sensibility to it.
electro-negative: A body which passes to the positive pole in electrolysis.
electro-physiological: Pertaining to electrical results produced through physiologicalagencies, or by change of action in a living organism.
electro-physiology: That branch of physiology which treats of electric phenomenaproduced through physiological agencies.
electro-polar: Possessing electrical polarity; positively electrified at oneend, or on one surface, and negatively at the other; -- said of aconductor.
electro-positive: Of such a nature relatively to some other associated body orbodies, as to tend to the negative pole of a voltaic battery, inelectrolysis, while the associated body tends to the positive pole; -- the converse or correlative of electro-negative.
electro-puncture: An operation that consists in inserting needless in the partaffected, and connecting them with the poles of a galvanic apparatus.
electro-stereotype: Same as Electrotype.
electro-telegraphic: Pertaining to the electric telegraph, or by means of it.
electro-telegraphy: The art or science of constructing or using the electrictelegraph; the transmission of messages by means of the electrictelegraph.
electro-therapeutics: The branch of medical science which treats of the applicationsagent.
electro-thermancy: That branch of electrical science which treats of the effect ofan electric current upon the temperature of a conductor, or a part ofa circuit composed of two different metals.
electro-tint: A style of engraving in relief by means of voltaic electricity.A picture is drawn on a metallic plate with some material whichresists the fluids of a battery; so that, in electro-typing, theparts not covered by the varnish, etc., receive a deposition ofmetal, and produce the required copy in intaglio. A cast of this isthen the plate for printing.
electro-vital: Derived from, or dependent upon, vital processes; -- said ofcertain electric currents supposed by some physiologists to circulatein the nerves of animals.
electro-vitalism: The theory that the functions of living organisms are dependentupon electricity or a kindred force.
electrocute: To execute or put to death by electricity.-- E*lec`tro*cu"tion, n.
electrode: The path by which electricity is conveyed into or from asolution or other conducting medium; esp., the ends of the wires orconductors, leading from source of electricity, and terminating inthe medium traversed by the current.
electrogenesis: Same as Electrogeny.
electrogenic: Of or pertaining to electrogenesis; as, an electrogeniccondition.
electrogeny: A term sometimes applied to the effects (tetanus) produced inthe muscles of the limbs, when a current of electricity is passedalong the spinal cord or nerves.
electrograph: A mark, record, or tracing, made by the action of electricity.
electrographic: Of or pertaining to an electrograph or electrography.
electrolier: A branching frame, often of ornamental design, to supportelectric illuminating lamps.
electrology: That branch of physical science which treats of the phenomenaof electricity and its properties.
electrolysis: The act or process of chemical decomposition, by the action ofelectricity; as, the electrolysis of silver or nickel for plating;the electrolysis of water.
electrolyte: A compound decomposable, or subjected to decomposition, by anelectric current.
electrolyzable: Capable of being electrolyzed, or decomposed by electricity.
electrolyzation: The act or the process of electrolyzing.
electrolyze: To decompose by the direct action of electricity. Faraday.
electrometer: An instrument for measuring the quantity or intensity ofelectricity; also, sometimes, and less properly, applied to aninstrument which indicates the presence of electricity (usuallycalled an electroscope). Balance electrometer. See under Balance.
electrometry: The art or process of making electrical measurements.
electromotor: A mover or exciter of electricity; as apparatus for generatinga current of electricity.
electron: Amber; also, the alloy of gold and silver, called electrum.
electronic: Of or pertaining to an electron or electrons.
electropathy: The treatment of disease by electricity.
electrophone: An instrument for producing sound by means of electriccurrents.
electrophorus: An instrument for exciting electricity, and repeating thecharge indefinitely by induction, consisting of a flat cake of resin,shelllac, or ebonite, upon which is placed a plate of metal.
electroplate: To plate or cover with a coating of metal, usually silver,nickel, or gold, by means of electrolysis.
electroplater: One who electroplates.
electroplating: The art or process of depositing a coating (commonly) ofsilver, gold, or nickel on an inferior metal, by means ofelectricity.
electroscope: An instrument for detecting the presence of electricity, orchanges in the electric state of bodies, or the species ofelectricity present, as by means of pith balls, and the like.Condensing electroscope (Physics), a form of electroscope in which anincrease of sensibility is obtained by the use of a condenser.
electroscopic: Relating to, or made by means of, the electroscope.
electrostatic: Pertaining to electrostatics.
electrostatics: That branch of science which treats of statical electricity orelectric force in a state of rest.
electrotonic: Of or pertaining to electrical tension; -- said of a supposedpeculiar condition of a conducting circuit during its exposure to theaction of another conducting circuit traversed by a uniform electriccurrent when both circuits remain stationary. Faraday.
electrotonize: To cause or produce electrotonus.
electrotonous: Electrotonic.
electrotonus: The modified condition of a nerve, when a constant current ofelectricity passes through any part of it. See Anelectrotonus, andCatelectrotonus.
electrotype: A facsimile plate made by electrotypy for use in printing;also, an impression or print from such plate. Also used adjectively.
electrotyper: One who electrotypes.
electrotypic: Pertaining to, or effected by means of, electrotypy.
electrotyping: The act or the process of making electrotypes.
electrotypy: The process of producing electrotype plates. See Note underElectrotype, n.
electuary: A medicine composed of powders, or other ingredients,incorporated with some convserve, honey, or sirup; a confection. Seethe note under Confection.
eleemosynarily: In an eleemosynary manner; by charity; charitably.
eleemosynary: One who subsists on charity; a dependent. South.
elegantly: In a manner to please nice taste; with elegance; with duesymmetry; richly.
elegiac: Elegiac verse.
elegiacal: Elegiac.
elegiast: One who composes elegies. Goldsmith.
elegiographer: An elegist. [Obs.]
elegist: A write of elegies. T. Warton.
elegit: A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods areappraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if no sufficient tosatisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered, to be held till thedebt is paid by the rents and profits, or until the defendant'sinterest has expired.
elegize: To lament in an elegy; to celebrate in elegiac verse; tobewail. Carlyle.
elegy: A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem oflamentation. Shak.
eleidin: Lifeless matter deposited in the form of minute granules withinthe protoplasm of living cells.
elementalism: The theory that the heathen divinities originated in thepersonification of elemental powers.
elementality: The condition of being composed of elements, or a thing socomposed.
elementally: According to elements; literally; as, the words, "Take, eat;this is my body," elementally understood.
elementar: Elementary. [Obs.] Skelton.
elementariness: The state of being elementary; original simplicity;uncompounded state.
elementarity: Elementariness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
elementation: Instruction in the elements or first principles. [R.]
elementoid: Resembling an element.
elemi: A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly tropical trees of thegenera Amyris and Canarium. A. elemifera yields Mexican elemi; C.commune, the Manila elemi. It is used in the manufacture ofvarnishes, also in ointments and plasters.
elemin: A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin bydistillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from theresin.
elenchical: Pertaining to an elench.
elenchically: By means of an elench.
elenchize: To dispute. [R.] B. Jonson.
elenchus: Same as Elench.
elenge: Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble. [Obs.] Chaucer.
elengeness: Loneliness; misery. [Obs.]
elephansy: Elephantiasis. [Obs.] Holland.
elephant: A mammal of the order Proboscidia, of which two living species,Elephas Indicus and E. Africanus, and several fossil species, areknown. They have a proboscis or trunk, and two large ivory tusksproceeding from the extremity of the upper jaw, and curving upwards.The molar teeth are large and have transverse folds. Elephants arethe largest land animals now existing.
elephantiac: Affected with elephantiasis; characteristic of elephantiasis.
elephantiasis: A disease of the skin, in which it become enormously thickened,and is rough, hard, and fissured, like an elephant's hide.
elephantine: Pertaining to the elephant, or resembling an elephant(commonly, in size); hence, huge; immense; heavy; as, of elephantineproportions; an elephantine step or tread. Elephantine epoch (Geol.),the epoch distinguished by the existence of large pachyderms.Mantell.-- Elephantine tortoise (Zoöl.), a huge land tortoise; esp., Testudoelephantina, from islands in the Indian Ocean; and T. elephantopus,from the Galapagos Islands.
eleusinian: Pertaining to Eleusis, in Greece, or to secret rites in honorof Ceres, there celebrated; as, Eleusinian mysteries or festivals.
eleuthero-petalous: Having the petals free, that is, entirely separate from eachother; -- said of both plant and flower.
eleutheromania: A mania or frantic zeal for freedom. [R.] Carlyle.
eleutheromaniac: Mad for freedom. [R.]
elevate: Elevated; raised aloft. [Poetic] Milton.
elevated: Uplifted; high; lofty; also, animated; noble; as, elevatedthoughts. Elevated railway, one in which the track is raisedconsiderably above the ground, especially a city railway above theline of street travel.
elevatedness: The quality of being elevated.
elevation: The distance of a celestial object above the horizon, or thearc of a vertical circle intercepted between it and the horizon;altitude; as, the elevation of the pole, or of a star.
elevator: One who, or that which, raises or lifts up anything; as:(a) A mechanical contrivance, usually an endless belt or chain with aseries of scoops or buckets, for transferring grain to an upper loftfor storage.(b) A cage or platform and the hoisting machinery in a hotel,warehouse, mine, etc., for conveying persons, goods, etc., to or fromdifferent floors or levels; -- called in England a lift; the cage orplatform itself.(c) A building for elevating, storing, and discharging, grain.(d) (Anat.) A muscle which serves to raise a part of the body, as theleg or the eye.(e) (Surg.) An instrument for raising a depressed portion of a bone.Elevator head, leg, and boot, the boxes in which the upper pulley,belt, and lower pulley, respectively, run in a grain elevator.
elevatory: Tending to raise, or having power to elevate; as, elevatoryforces.
eleve: A pupil; a student.
eleven: Ten and one added; as, eleven men.
eleventh: Of or pertaining to the interval of the octave and the fourth.
elf: To entangle mischievously, as an elf might do.Elf all my hair in knots. Shak.
elfin: Relating to elves.
elfish: Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcelyhuman; mischievous, as though caused by elves. "Elfish light."Coleridge.The elfish intelligence that was so familiar an expression on hersmall physiognomy. Hawthorne.
elfishly: In an elfish manner.
elfishness: The quality of being elfish.
elfkin: A little elf.
elfland: Fairyland. Tennyson.
elflock: Hair matted, or twisted into a knot, as if by elves.
elgin marbles: Greek sculptures in the British Museum. They were obtained atAthens, about 1811, by Lord Elgin.
elicit: Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident. [Obs.] "Anelicit act of equity." Jer. Taylor.
elicitate: To elicit. [Obs.]
elicitation: The act of eliciting. [Obs.] Abp. Bramhall.
elide: To cut off, as a vowel or a syllable, usually the final one; tosubject to elision.
eligibility: The quality of being eligible; eligibleness; as, theeligibility of a candidate; the eligibility of an offer of marriage.
eligibleness: The quality worthy or qualified to be chosen; suitableness;desirableness.
eligibly: In an eligible manner.
elimate: To render smooth; to polish. [Obs.]
eliminant: The result of eliminating n variables between n homogeneousequations of any degree; -- called also resultant.
eliminate: To cause to disappear from an equation; as, to eliminate anunknown quantity.
elimination: the act of discharging or excreting waste products or foreignsubstances through the various emunctories.
eliminative: Relating to, or carrying on, elimination.
elinguate: To deprive of the tongue. [Obs.] Davies (Holy Roode).
elinguation: Punishment by cutting out the tongue.
elinguid: Tongue-tied; dumb. [Obs.]
eliquament: A liquid obtained from fat, or fat fish, by pressure.
eliquation: The process of separating a fusible substance from one lessfusible, by means of a degree of heat sufficient to melt the one andnot the other, as an alloy of copper and lead; liquation. Ure.
elison: The cutting off or suppression of a vowel or syllable, for thesake of meter or euphony; esp., in poetry, the dropping of a finalvowel standing before an initial vowel in the following word, whenthe two words are drawn together.
elisor: An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a courtto return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coronersare disqualified.
elite: A choice or select body; the flower; as, the élite of society.
elix: To extract. [Obs.] Marston.
elixate: To boil; to seethe; hence, to extract by boiling or seething.[Obs.] Cockeram.
elixation: A seething; digestion. [Obs.] Burton.
elixir: A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture ormedicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcoholin some form.
elizabethan: Pertaining to Queen Elizabeth or her times, esp. to thearchitecture or literature of her reign; as, the Elizabethan writers,drama, literature.-- n.
elk: A large deer, of several species. The European elk (Alcesmachlis or Cervus alces) is closely allied to the American moose. TheAmerican elk, or wapiti (Cervus Canadensis), is closely related tothe European stag. See Moose, and Wapiti. Irish elk (Paleon.), alarge, extinct, Quaternary deer (Cervus giganteus) with widelyspreading antlers. Its remains have been found beneath the peat ofswamps in Ireland and England. See Illustration in Appendix; alsoIllustration of Antler.-- Cape elk (Zoöl.), the eland.
elknut: The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo.
elkwood: The soft, spongy wood of a species of Magnolia (M. Umbrella).
ell: A measure for cloth; -- now rarely used. It is of differentlengths in different countries; the English ell being 45 inches, theDutch or Flemish ell 27, the Scotch about 37.
ellachick: A fresh-water tortoise (Chelopus marmoratus) of California; --used as food.
ellagic: Pertaining to, or derived from, gallnuts or gallic acid; as,ellagic acid. Ellagic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance,C14H8O9, found in bezoar stones, and obtained by the oxidation ofgallic acid.
ellebore: Hellebore. [Obs.] Chaucer.
elleborin: See Helleborin.
elleck: The red gurnard or cuckoo fish. [Prov. Eng.]
elles: See Else. [Obs.]
ellipse: An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, whichcorresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an obliquesection of a cone through its opposite sides. The greatest diameterof the ellipse is the major axis, and the least diameter is the minoraxis. See Conic section, under Conic, and cf. Focus.
ellipsis: Omission; a figure of syntax, by which one or more words, whichare obviously understood, are omitted; as, the virtues I admire, for,the virtues which I admire.
ellipsograph: An instrument for describing ellipses; -- called also trammel.
ellipsoid: A solid, all plane sections of which are ellipses or circles.See Conoid, n., 2 (a).
elliptic-lanceolate: Having a form intermediate between elliptic and lanceolate.
ellipticity: Deviation of an ellipse or a spheroid from the form of a circleor a sphere; especially, in reference to the figure of the earth, thedifference between the equatorial and polar semidiameters, divided bythe equatorial; thus, the ellipticity of the earth is
elliptograph: Same as Ellipsograph.
ellwand: Formerly, a measuring rod an ell long.
elm: A tree of the genus Ulmus, of several species, much used as ashade tree, particularly in America. The English elm is Ulmuscampestris; the common American or white elm is U. Americana; theslippery or red elm, U. fulva. Elm beetle (Zoöl.), one of severalspecies of beetles (esp. Galeruca calmariensis), which feed on theleaves of the elm.-- Elm borer (Zoöl.), one of several species of beetles of which thelarvæ bore into the wood or under the bark of the elm (esp. Saperdatridentata).-- Elm butterfly (Zoöl.), one of several species of butterflies,which, in the caterpillar state, feed on the leaves of the elm (esp.Vanessa antiopa and Grapta comma). See Comma butterfly, under Comma.-- Elm moth (Zoöl.), one of numerous species of moths of which thelarvæ destroy the leaves of the elm (esp. Eugonia subsignaria, calledelm spanworm).-- Elm sawfly (Zoöl.), a large sawfly (Cimbex Americana). The larva,which is white with a black dorsal stripe, feeds on the leaves of theelm.
elmen: Belonging to elms. [Obs.]
elmy: Abounding with elms.The simple spire and elmy grange. T. Warton.
elocular: Having but one cell, or cavity; not divided by a septum orpartition.
elocutionary: Pertaining to elocution.
elocutionist: One who is versed in elocution; a teacher of elocution.
elocutive: Pertaining to oratorical expression. [Obs.] Feltham.
elodian: One of a tribe of tortoises, including the terrapins, etc., inwhich the head and neck can be withdrawn.
eloge: A panegyrical funeral oration.
elogist: One who pronounces an éloge.
elohim: One of the principal names by which God is designated in theHebrew Scriptures.
elohist: The writer, or one of the writers, of the passages of the OldTestament, notably those of Elohim instead of Jehovah, as the name ofthe Supreme Being; -- distinguished from Jehovist. S. Davidson.
elohistic: Relating to Elohim as a name of God; -- said of passages in theOld Testament.
eloign: To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or toconceal, as goods liable to distress.The sheriff may return that the goods or beasts are eloigned.Blackstone.
eloignate: To remove. [Obs.] Howell.
eloignment: Removal to a distance; withdrawal. [Obs.]
eloin: See Eloign.
eloinate: See Eloignate.
eloinment: See Eloignment.
elongate: To depart to, or be at, a distance; esp., to recede apparentlyfrom the sun, as a planet in its orbit. [R.]
elongation: The angular distance of a planet from the sun; as, theelongation of Venus or Mercury.
elope: To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station towhich one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man,either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or asweetheart.Great numbers of them [the women] have eloped from their allegiance.Addison.
elopement: The act of eloping; secret departure; -- said of a woman and aman, one or both, who run away from their homes for marriage or forcohabitation.
eloper: One who elopes.
elops: A genus of fishes. See Saury.
eloquently: In an eloquent manner.
else: Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming Whatelse shall I give Do you expect anything else "Bastards and else."Shak.
elsewhither: To some, or any, other place; as, you will have to goelsewhither for it. R. of Gloucester."For elsewhither was I bound."Carlyle.
elsewise: Otherwise. [R.]
elsin: A shoemaker's awl. [Prov. Eng.]
elucidate: To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; toillustrate; as, an example will elucidate the subject.
elucidation: A making clear; the act of elucidating or that whichelucidates, as an explanation, an exposition, an illustration; as,one example may serve for further elucidation of the subject.
elucidative: Making clear; tending to elucidate; as, an elucidative note.
elucidator: One who explains or elucidates; an expositor.
elucidatory: Tending to elucidate; elucidative. [R.]
eluctate: To struggle out; -- with out. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.
eluctation: A struggling out of any difficulty. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
elucubrate: See Lucubrate. [Obs.] Blount.
elucubration: See Lucubration. [Obs.] Evelyn.
elude: To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escapefrom in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle;as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search,comprehension; to elude the force of an argument or a blow.Me gentle Delia beckons from the plain, Then, hid in shades, eludeshe eager swain. Pope.The transition from fetichism to polytheism seems a gradual processof which the stages elude close definition. Tylor.
eludible: Capable of being eluded; evadible.
elul: The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, orthe twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to themonth of September.
elumbated: Weak or lame in the loins. [Obs.]
elusion: Act of eluding; adroit escape, as by artifice; a mockery; acheat; trickery.
elusive: Tending to elude; using arts or deception to escape; adroitlyescaping or evading; eluding the grasp; fallacious.Elusive of the bridal day, she gives Fond hopes to all, and all withhopes deceives. Pope.-- E*lu"sive*ly, adv.-- E*lu"sive*ness, n.
elusory: Tending to elude or deceive; evasive; fraudulent; fallacious;deceitful; deceptive.-- E*lu"so*ri*ness, n.
elute: To wash out. [R.] Arbuthnot.
elutriate: To wash or strain out so as to purify; as, to elutriate theblood as it passes through the lungs; to strain off or decant, as apowder which is separated from heavier particles by being drawn offwith water; to cleanse, as by washing.
elutriation: The process of elutriating; a decanting or racking off by meansof water, as finer particles from heavier.
eluxate: To dislocate; to luxate.
eluxation: Dislocation; luxation.
elvan: Of or pertaining to certain veins of feldspathic or porphyriticrock crossing metalliferous veins in the mining districts ofCornwall; as, an elvan course.
elve: An old form of Elf.
elver: A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene.
elves: pl. of Elf.
elvishly: In an elvish manner. Sir W. Scott.
elwand: See Ellwand.
elysian: Pertaining, or the abode of the blessed after death; hence,yielding the highest pleasures; exceedingly delightful; beatific."Elysian shades." Massinger. "Elysian age." Beattie.This life of mortal breath Is but a suburb of the life elysian.Longfellow.
elytriform: Having the form, or structure, of an elytron.
elytrin: See Chitin.
elytroid: Resembling a beetle's wing case.
elzevir: Applied to books or editions (esp. of the Greek New Testamentand the classics) printed and published by the Elzevir family atAmsterdam, Leyden, etc., from about 1592 to 1680; also, applied to around open type introduced by them.The Elzevir editions are valued for their neatness, and the elegantsmall types used. Brande & C.
em: The portion of a line formerly occupied by the letter m, then asquare type, used as a unit by which to measure the amount of printedmatter on a page; the square of the body of a type.
em-: A prefix. See En-.
emacerate: To make lean or to become lean; to emaciate. [Obs.] Bullokar.
emaceration: Emaciation. [Obs.]
emaciate: To lose flesh gradually and become very lean; to waste away inflesh. "He emaciated and pined away." Sir T. Browne.
emaculate: To clear from spots or stains, or from any imperfection. [Obs.]Hales.
emaculation: The act of clearing from spots. [Obs.] Johnson.
emanant: Issuing or flowing forth; emanating; passing forth into an act,or making itself apparent by an effect; -- said of mental acts; as,an emanant volition.
emanate: Issuing forth; emanant. [R.]
emanative: Issuing forth; effluent.
emanatively: By an emanation.
emanatory: Emanative; of the nature of an emanation. Dr. H. More.
emancipate: To set free from the power of another; to liberate; as
emancipation: The act of setting free from the power of another, fromslavery, subjection, dependence, or controlling influence; also, thestate of being thus set free; liberation; as, the emancipation ofslaves; the emancipation of minors; the emancipation of a person fromprejudices; the emancipation of the mind from superstition; theemancipation of a nation from tyranny or subjection.
emancipationist: An advocate of emancipation, esp. the emancipation of slaves.
emancipator: One who emancipates.
emancipatory: Pertaining to emancipation, or tending to effect emancipation."Emancipatory laws." G. Eliot.
emancipist: A freed convict. [Australia]
emarginate: To take away the margin of.
emarginately: In an emarginate manner.
emargination: The act of notching or indenting the margin, or the state ofbeing so notched; also, a notch or shallow sinus in a margin.
emasculate: Deprived of virility or vigor; unmanned; weak. "Emasculateslave." Hammond.
emasculator: One who, or that which, emasculates.
emasculatory: Serving or tending to emasculate.
embace: See Embase. [Obs.]
emball: To encircle or embrace. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
embalmer: One who embalms.
embalmment: The act of embalming. [R.] Malone.
embank: To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect bya bank of earth or stone.
embarcation: Same as Embarkation.
embarge: To put in a barge. [Poetic] Drayton.
embargo: An edict or order of the government prohibiting the departureof ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within itsdominions; a prohibition to sail.
embarkment: Embarkation. [R.] Middleton.
embarrass: To involve in difficulties concerning money matters; toincumber with debt; to beset with urgent claims or demands; -- saidof a person or his affairs; as, a man or his business is embarrassedwhen he can not meet his pecuniary engagements.
embase: To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase;to degrade; to deteriorate. [Obs.]Embased the valleys, and embossed the hills. Sylvester.Alloy in coin of gold . . . may make the metal work the better, butit embaseth it. Bacon.Such pitiful embellishments of speech as serve for nothing but toembase divinity. South.
embasement: Act of bringing down; depravation; deterioration. South.
embassade: An embassy. See Ambassade. [Obs.] Shak.
embassador: Same as Ambassador.Stilbon, that was a wise embassadour, Was sent to Corinth. Chaucer.Myself my king's embassador will go. Dryden.
embassadorial: Same as Ambassadorial.
embassadress: Same as Ambassadress.
embassadry: Embassy. [Obs.] Leland.
embastardize: To bastardize. [Obs.]
embathe: To bathe; to imbathe.
embattail: To furnish with battlements; to fortify as with battlements.[Archaic]To embattail and to wall about thy cause With iron-worded proof.Tennyson.
embattle: To arrange in order of battle; to array for battle; also, toprepare or arm for battle; to equip as for battle.One in bright arms embattled full strong. Spenser.Here once the embattled farmers stood And fired the shot heard roundthe world. Emerson.
embattled: Having the edge broken like battlements; -- said of a bearingsuch as a fess, bend, or the like.
embay: To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing. [Obs.] Spenser.
embayment: A bay. [R.]The embayment which is terminated by the land of North Berwick. SirW. Scott.
embeam: To make brilliant with beams. [R.] G. Fletcher.
embed: To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as,to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand.
embedment: The act of embedding, or the state of being embedded.
embellish: To make beautiful or elegant by ornaments; to decorate; toadorn; as, to embellish a book with pictures, a garden with shrubsand flowers, a narrative with striking anecdotes, or style withmetaphors.
embellisher: One who embellishes.
ember: A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in theplural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains ofa fire. "He rakes hot embers." Dryden.He takes a lighted ember out of the covered vessel. Colebrooke.
ember-goose: The loon or great northern diver. See Loon. [Written alsoemmer-goose and imber-goose.]
emberings: Ember days. [Obs.]
emberizidae: a natural subfamily including buntings and some New Worldsparrows.Syn. -- subfamily Emberizidae, subfamily Emberizinae.[WordNet 1.5]
embetter: To make better. [Obs.]
embezzlement: The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom ithas been intrusted; as, the embezzlement by a clerk of hisemployer's; embezzlement of public funds by the public officer havingthem in charge.
embezzler: One who embezzles.
embillow: To swell or heave like a [R.] Lisle.
embiotocoid: Belonging to, or resembling, the Embiotocidæ.-- n.
embitter: To make bitter or sad. See Imbitter.
embitterment: The act of embittering; also, that which embitters.
emblanch: To whiten. See Blanch. [Obs.] Heylin.
emblazoner: One who emblazons; also, one who publishes and displaysanything with pomp.
emblazoning: The act or art of heraldic decoration; delineation of armorialbearings.
emblazonment: An emblazoning.
emblazonry: The act or art of an emblazoner; heraldic or ornamentaldecoration, as pictures or figures on shields, standards, etc.;emblazonment.Thine ancient standard's rich emblazonry. Trench.
emblem: To represent by an emblem; to symbolize. [R.]Emblemed by the cozening fig tree. Feltham.
emblematiccize: To render emblematic; as, to emblematicize a picture. [R.]Walpole.
emblematist: A writer or inventor of emblems. Sir T. Browne.
emblematize: To represent by, or as by, an emblem; to symbolize.Anciently the sun was commonly emblematized by a starry or radiatefigure. Bp. Hurd.
emblement: The growing crop, or profits of a crop which has been sown orplanted; -- used especially in the plural. The produce of grass,trees, and the like, is not emblement. Wharton's Law Dict.
emblemize: To represent by an emblem; to emblematize. [R.]
embloom: To emblossom. Savage.
emblossom: To cover or adorn with blossoms.On the white emblossomed spray. J. Cunningham.
embodier: One who embodies.
embody: To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into abody, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one'sideas in a treatise. [Written also imbody.]Devils embodied and disembodied. Sir W. Scott.The soul, while it is embodied, can no more be divided from sin.South.
embogue: To disembogue; to discharge, as a river, its waters into thesea or another river. [R.]
emboguing: The mouth of a river, or place where its waters are discharged.[R.]
emboil: To boil with anger; to effervesce. [Obs.] Spenser.
emboitement: The hypothesis that all living things proceed from preëxistinggerms, and that these encase the germs of all future living things,inclosed one within another. Buffon.
embolden: To give boldness or courage to; to encourage. Shak.The self-conceit which emboldened him to undertake this dangerousoffice. Sir W. Scott.
emboldener: One who emboldens.
embolic: Pertaining to an embolism; produced by an embolism; as, anembolic abscess.
embolism: The occlusion of a blood vessel by an embolus. Embolism in thebrain often produces sudden unconsciousness and paralysis.
embolismal: Pertaining to embolism; intercalary; as, embolismal months.
embolite: A mineral consisting of both the chloride and the bromide ofsilver.
embolus: A plug of some substance lodged in a blood vessel, beingbrought thither by the blood current. It consists most frequently ofa clot of fibrin, a detached shred of a morbid growth, a globule offat, or a microscopic organism.
emboly: Embolic invagination. See under Invagination.
embonpoint: Plumpness of person; -- said especially of persons somewhatcorpulent.
emborder: To furnish or adorn with a border; to imborder.
emboss: To make to foam at the mouth, like a hunted animal. [Obs.]
embosser: One who embosses.
embottle: To bottle. [R.] Phillips.
embow: To bend like a bow; to curve. "Embowed arches." [Obs. or R.]Sir W. Scott.With gilded horns embowed like the moon. Spenser.
emboweler: One who takes out the bowels. [Written also emboweller.]
embowelment: Disembowelment.
embower: To cover with a bower; to shelter with trees. [Written alsoimbower.] [Poetic] Milton.-- v. i.
embowl: To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to. [Obs.] Sir P.Sidney.
embox: To inclose, as in a box; to imbox.
emboyssement: An ambush. [Obs.] Chaucer.
embrace: To fasten on, as armor. [Obs.] Spenser.
embraceor: One guilty of embracery.
embracer: One who embraces.
embracery: An attempt to influence a court, jury, etc., corruptly, bypromises, entreaties, money, entertainments, threats, or otherimproper inducements.
embracive: Disposed to embrace; fond of caressing. [R.] Thackeray.
embranchment: The branching forth, as of trees.
embrangle: To confuse; to entangle.I am lost and embrangled in inextricable difficulties. Berkeley.
embrasure: An embrace. [Obs.] "Our locked embrasures."" Shak.
embrawn: To harden. [Obs.]It will embrawn and iron-crust his flesh. Nash.
embread: To braid. [Obs.] Spenser.
embreathement: The act of breathing in; inspiration. [R.]The special and immediate suggestion, embreathement, and dictation ofthe Holy Ghost. W. Lee.
embrew: To imbrue; to stain with blood. [Obs.] Spenser.
embright: To brighten. [Obs.]
embrocate: To moisten and rub (a diseased part) with a liquid substance,as with spirit, oil, etc., by means of a cloth or sponge.
embroglio: See Imbroglio.
embroider: To ornament with needlework; as, to embroider a scarf.Thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen. Ex. xxviii. 39.
embroiderer: One who embroiders.
embroil: See Embroilment.
embroiler: One who embroils.
embroilment: The act of embroiling, or the condition of being embroiled;entanglement in a broil. Bp. Burnet.
embrothel: To inclose in a brothel. [Obs.] Donne.
embrown: To give a brown color to; to imbrown.Summer suns embrown the laboring swain. Fenton.
embrue: See Imbrue, Embrew. [Obs.]
embrute: To brutify; to imbrute.All the man embruted in the swine. Cawthorn.
embryo: The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant;as:(a) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically, beforeits parts are developed and it becomes a fetus (see Fetus).(b) The germ of the plant, which is inclosed in the seed and which isdeveloped by germination. In embryo, in an incipient or undevelopedstate; in conception, but not yet executed. "The company littlesuspected what a noble work I had then in embryo." Swift.
embryo sac: See under Embryonic.
embryogenic: Pertaining to the development of an embryo.
embryogeny: The production and development of an embryo.
embryogony: The formation of an embryo.
embryography: The general description of embryos.
embryologist: One skilled in embryology.
embryology: The science which relates to the formation and development ofthe embryo in animals and plants; a study of the gradual developmentof the ovum until it reaches the adult stage.
embryon: See Embryo.
embryonal: Pertaining to an embryo, or the initial state of any organ;embryonic.
embryonary: Embryonic.
embryonic: Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary.Embryonic sac or vesicle (Bot.), the vesicle within which the embryois developed in the ovule; -- sometimes called also amnios sac, andembryonal sac.
embryoniferous: Having an embryo.
embryoniform: Like an embryo in form.
embryoplastic: Relating to, or aiding in, the formation of an embryo; as,embryoplastic cells.
embryotic: Embryonic.
embryotomy: The cutting a fetus into pieces within the womb, so as toeffect its removal.
embryotroph: The material from which an embryo is formed and nourished.
embryous: Embryonic; undeveloped. [R.]
embulk: To enlarge in the way of bulk. [R.] Latham.
emburse: To furnish with money; to imburse. [Obs.]
embush: To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush. [Obs.] Shelton.
embushment: An ambush. [Obs.]
embusy: To employ. [Obs.] Skelton.
eme: An uncle. [Obs.] Spenser.
emeer: Same as Emir.
emenagogue: See Emmenagogue.
emend: To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to makecorrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textualcriticism, generally verbal.
emendable: Corrigible; amendable. [R.] Bailey.
emendately: Without fault; correctly. [Obs.]
emendator: One who emends or critically edits.
emendatory: Pertaining to emendation; corrective. "Emendatory criticism.""Johnson.
emender: One who emends.
emendicate: To beg. [Obs.] Cockeram.
emerald: A precious stone of a rich green color, a variety of beryl. SeeBeryl.
emeraldine: A green compound used as a dyestuff, produced from aniline bluewhen acted upon by acid.
emeraud: An emerald. [Obs.] Spenser.
emerge: To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in whichanything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue andappear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emergesfrom behind the moon in an eclipse; to emerge from poverty orobscurity. "Thetis . . . emerging from the deep." Dryden.Those who have emerged from very low, some from the lowest, classesof society. Burke.
emergence: The act of rising out of a fluid, or coming forth fromenvelopment or concealment, or of rising into view; sudden uprisal orappearance.The white color of all refracted light, at its very first emergence .. . is compounded of various colors. Sir I. Newton.When from the deep thy bright emergence sprung. H. Brooke.
emerited: Considered as having done sufficient public service, andtherefore honorably discharged. [Obs.] Evelyn.
emeritus: Honorably discharged from the performance of public duty onaccount of age, infirmity, or long and faithful services; -- said ofan officer of a college or pastor of a church.
emersed: Standing out of, or rising above, water. Gray.
emersion: The reappearance of a heavenly body after an eclipse oroccultation; as, the emersion of the moon from the shadow of theearth; the emersion of a star from behind the moon.
emery: Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts forgrinding and polishing hard substances. Native emery is mixed withmore or less magnetic iron. See the Note under Corundum. Emery board,cardboard pulp mixed with emery and molded into convenient.-- Emery cloth or paper, cloth or paper on which the powder of emeryis spread and glued for scouring and polishing.-- Emery wheel, a wheel containing emery, or having a surface ofemery. In machine shops, it is sometimes called a buff wheel, and bythe manufacturers of cutlery, a glazer.
emesis: A vomiting.
emetic: Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge itscontents by the mouth.-- n.
emetical: Inducing to vomit; producing vomiting; emetic.-- E*met"ic*al*ly, adv.
emetine: A white crystalline bitter alkaloid extracted from ipecacuanharoot, and regarded as its peculiar emetic principle.
emeto-cathartic: Producing vomiting and purging at the same time.
emeute: A seditious tumult; an outbreak.
emforth: According to; conformably to. [Obs.] Chaucer. Emforth my might,so far as lies in my power. [Obs.]
emgalla: The South African wart hog. See Wart hog.
emicant: Beaming forth; flashing. [R.]Which emicant did this and that way dart. Blackmore.
emication: A flying off in small particles, as heated iron or fermentingliquors; a sparkling; scintillation. Sir T. Browne.
emictory: Diuretic.
emigrant: One who emigrates, or quits one country or region to settle inanother.
emigrate: To remove from one country or State to another, for the purposeof residence; to migrate from home.Forced to emigrate in a body to America. Macaulay.They [the Huns] were emigrating from Tartary into Europe in the timeof the Goths. J. H. Newman.
emigrational: Relating to emigration.
emigrationist: An advocate or promoter of emigration.
emigrator: One who emigrates; am emigrant. [R.]
emigre: One of the natives of France who were opposed to the firstRevolution, and who left their country in consequence.
eminency: State of being eminent; eminence. "Eminency of estate."Tillotson.
eminently: In an eminent manner; in a high degree; conspicuously; as, tobe eminently learned.
emissary: An agent employed to advance, in a covert manner, the interestsof his employers; one sent out by any power that is at war withanother, to create dissatisfaction among the people of the latter.Buzzing emissaries fill the ears Of listening crowds with jealousiesand fears. Dryden.
emissaryship: The office of an emissary.
emissitious: Looking, or narrowly examining; prying. [Obs.] "Thoseemissitious eyes." Bp. Hall.
emissive: Sending out; emitting; as, emissive powers.
emissivity: Tendency to emission; comparative facility of emission, or rateat which emission takes place, as of heat from the surface of aheated body.
emissory: Same as Emissary, a., 2.
emittent: Sending forth; emissive. Boyle.
emmantle: To cover over with, or as with, a mantle; to put about as aprotection. [Obs.] Holland.
emmanuel: See Immanuel. Matt. i. 23.
emmarble: To turn to marble; to harden. [Obs.]Thou dost emmarble the proud heart. Spenser.
emmenagogue: A medicine that promotes the menstrual discharge.
emmet: An ant. Emmet hunter (Zoöl.), the wryneck.
emmetropia: That refractive condition of the eye in which the rays of lightare all brought accurately and without undue effort to a focus uponthe retina; -- opposed to hypermetropia, myopia, an astigmatism.
emmetropic: Pertaining to, or characterized by, emmetropia.The normal or emmetropic eye adjusts itself perfectly for alldistances. J. Le Conte.
emmetropy: Same as Emmetropia.
emmew: To mew or coop up. [Obs.] Shak.
emmove: To move; to rouse; to excite. [Obs.]
emodin: An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained fromthe buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative ofanthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei).
emollescence: That degree of softness in a body beginning to melt whichalters its shape; the first or lowest degree of fusibility.
emolliate: To soften; to render effeminate.Emolliated by four centuries of Roman domination, the Belgic colonieshad forgotten their pristine valor. Pinkerton.
emollient: Softening; making supple; acting as an emollient. "Emollientapplications." Arbuthnot.
emollition: The act of softening or relaxing; relaxation. Bacon.
emolument: The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain;compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary.A long . . . enjoyment of the emoluments of office. Bancroft.
emolumental: Pertaining to an emolument; profitable. [R.] Evelyn.
emotion: A moving of the mind or soul; excitement of the feelings,whether pleasing or painful; disturbance or agitation of mind causedby a specific exciting cause and manifested by some sensible effecton the body.How different the emotions between departure and return! W. Irving.Some vague emotion of delight. Tennyson.
emotional: Pertaining to, or characterized by, emotion; excitable; easilymoved; sensational; as, an emotional nature.
emotionalism: The cultivation of an emotional state of mind; tendency toregard things in an emotional manner.
emotionalize: To give an emotional character to.Brought up in a pious family where religion was not talked aboutemotionalized, but was accepted as the rule of thought and conduct.Froude.
emotioned: Affected with emotion. [R.] "The emotioned soul." Sir W. Scott.
emotive: Attended by, or having the character of, emotion. H. Brooke.-- E*mo"tive*ly, adv.
emotiveness: Susceptibility to emotion. G. Eliot.
emotivity: Emotiveness. Hickok.
emove: To move. [Obs.] Thomson.
empair: To impair. [Obs.] Spenser.
empaistic: Having to do with inlaid work; -- especially used withreference to work of the ancient Greeks.
empale: To make pale. [Obs.]No bloodless malady empales their face. G. Fletcher.
empalement: Same as Impalement.
empanel: A list of jurors; a panel. [Obs.] Cowell.
empanoplied: Completely armed; panoplied. Tennyson.
emparadise: Same as Imparadise.
empark: To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark.[Obs.]
emparlance: Parley; imparlance. [Obs.] Spenser.
empasm: A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor ofsweat.
empassion: To move with passion; to affect strongly. See Impassion. [Obs.]Those sights empassion me full near. Spenser.
empassionate: Strongly affected. [Obs.]The Briton Prince was sore empassionate. Spenser.
empawn: To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn.To sell, empawn, and alienate the estates. Milman.
empeach: To hinder. See Impeach. [Obs.] Spenser.
empearl: To form like pearls; to decorate with, or as with, pearls; toimpearl.
empeople: To form into a people or community; to inhabit; to people.[Obs.]We now know 't is very well empeopled. Sir T. Browne.
emperess: See Empress. [Obs.]
emperice: An empress. [Obs.] Chaucer.
emperil: To put in peril. See Imperil. Spenser.
emperished: Perished; decayed. [Obs.]I deem thy brain emperished be. Spenser.
emperor: The sovereign or supreme monarch of an empire; -- a title ofdignity superior to that of king; as, the emperor of Germany or ofAustria; the emperor or Czar of Russia. Emperor goose (Zoöl.), alarge and handsome goose (Philacte canagica), found in Alaska.-- Emperor moth (Zoöl.), one of several large and beautiful bombycidmoths, with transparent spots on the wings; as the American Cecropiamoth (Platysamia cecropia), and the European species (Saturniapavonia).-- Emperor paper. See under Paper.-- Purple emperor (Zoöl.), a large, strong British butterfly(Apatura iris).
emperorship: The rank or office of an emperor.
empery: Empire; sovereignty; dominion. [Archaic] Shak.Struggling for my woman's empery. Mrs. Browning.
emphasis: A particular stress of utterance, or force of voice, given inreading and speaking to one or more words whose signification thespeaker intends to impress specially upon his audience.The province of emphasis is so much more important than accent, thatthe customary seat of the latter is changed, when the claims ofemphasis require it. E. Porter.
emphasize: To utter or pronounce with a particular stress of voice; tomake emphatic; as, to emphasize a word or a phrase.
emphaticalness: The quality of being emphatic; emphasis.
emphractic: Having the quality of closing the pores of the skin.
emphrensy: To madden. [Obs.]
emphysema: A swelling produced by gas or air diffused in the cellulartissue. Emphysema of the lungs, Pulmonary emphysema (Med.), a commondisease of the lungs in which the air cells are distended and theirpartition walls ruptured by an abnormal pressure of the air containedin them.
emphysematous: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, emphysema; swelled;bloated.
emphyteusis: A real right, susceptible of assignment and of descent, chargedon productive real estate, the right being coupled with the enjoymentof the property on condition of taking care of the estate and payingtaxes, and sometimes a small rent. Heumann.
emphyteutic: Of or pertaining to an emphyteusis; as, emphyteutic lands.
emphyteuticary: One who holds lands by emphyteusis.
empierce: To pierce; to impierce. [Obs.] Spenser.
empight: Fixed; settled; fastened. [Obs.] Spenser.
empire state: New York; -- a nickname alluding to its size and wealth.
empire state of the south: Georgia; -- a nickname.
empire state of the west: Missouri; -- a nickname.
empirically: By experiment or experience; without science; in the manner ofquacks.
empiricism: The philosophical theory which attributes the origin of all ourknowledge to experience.
empiricist: An empiric.
empiristic: Relating to, or resulting from, experience, or experiment;following from empirical methods or data; -- opposed to nativistic.
emplace: To put into place or position; to fix on an emplacement.
emplacement: A putting in, or assigning to, a definite place; localization;as, the emplacement of a structure.
emplaster: See Plaster. [Obs.] Wiseman.
emplastic: Fit to be applied as a plaster; glutinous; adhesive; as,emplastic applications.
emplastration: The application of a plaster or salve.
emplead: To accuse; to indict. See Implead.
emplection: See Emplecton.
emplecton: A kind of masonry in which the outer faces of the wall areashlar, the space between being filled with broken stone and mortar.Cross layers of stone are interlaid as binders. [R.] Weale.
emplore: See Implore. [Obs.]
employ: That which engages or occupies a person; fixed or regularservice or business; employment.The whole employ of body and of mind. Pope.In one's employ, in one's service.
employable: Capable of being employed; capable of being used; fit or properfor use. Boyle.
employe: One employed by another; a clerk or workman in the service ofan employer.
employee: One employed by another.
employer: One who employs another; as, an employer of workmen.
emplumed: Plumed. [R.]
emplunge: To plunge; to implunge. [Obs.] Spenser.
empoison: To poison; to impoison. Shak.
empoisoner: Poisoner. [Obs.] Bacon.
empoisonment: The act of poisoning. Bacon.
emporium: The brain. [Obs.]
empoverish: See Impoverish.
empressement: Demonstrative warmth or cordiality of manner; display ofenthusiasm.
emprint: See Imprint.
emprise: To undertake. [Obs.] Sackville.
emprising: Full of daring; adventurous. [Archaic] T. Campbell.
emprison: See Imprison.
emprosthotonos: A drawing of the body forward, in consequence of the spasmodicaction of some of the muscles. Gross.
empte: To empty. [Obs.] Chaucer.
emptier: One who, or that which, empties.
emption: The act of buying. [R.] Arbuthnot.
emptional: Capable of being purchased.
empty: An empty box, crate, cask, etc.; -- used in commerce, esp. intransportation of freight; as, "special rates for empties."
emptying: The lees of beer, cider, etc.; yeast. [U.S.]
empugn: See Impugn.
empurple: To tinge or dye of a purple color; to color with purple; toimpurple. "The deep empurpled ran." Philips.
empuse: A phantom or specter. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
empuzzle: To puzzle. [Archaic] Sir T. Browne.
empyema: A collection of blood, pus, or other fluid, in some cavity ofthe body, especially that of the pleura. Dunglison.
empyesis: An eruption of pustules.
empyreal: Formed of pure fire or light; refined beyond aërial substance;pertaining to the highest and purest region of heaven.Go, soar with Plato to the empyreal sphere. Pope.Empyreal air, oxygen gas.
empyrean: The highest heaven, where the pure element of fire was supposedby the ancients to subsist.The empyrean rung With hallelujahs. Milton.
empyreuma: The peculiar smell and taste arising from products ofdecomposition of animal or vegetable substances when burnt in closevessels.
empyreumatize: To render empyreumatic. [R.]
empyrical: Containing the combustible principle of coal. Kirwan.
empyrosis: A general fire; a conflagration. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.
emrods: See Emerods. [Obs.]
emu: A large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novæ-Hollandiæ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and theostrich. The emu runs swiftly, but is unable to fly. [Written alsoemeu and emew.]
emu wren: A small wrenlike Australian bird (Stipiturus malachurus),having the tail feathers long and loosely barbed, like emu feathers.
emulable: Capable of being emulated. [R.]Some imitable and emulable good. Abp. Leighton.
emulate: Striving to excel; ambitious; emulous. [Obs.] "A most emulatepride." Shak.
emulative: Inclined to emulation; aspiring to competition; rivaling; as,an emulative person or effort. "Emulative zeal." Hoole.
emulatively: In an emulative manner; with emulation.
emulator: One who emulates, or strives to equal or surpass.As Virgil rivaled Homer, Milton was the emulator of both. Bp.Warburton.
emulatory: Pertaining to emulation; connected with rivalry. [R.]"Emulatory officiousness." Bp. Hall.
emulatress: A female emulator. [R.]
emule: To emulate. [Obs.] "Emuled of many." Spenser.
emulge: To milk out; to drain. [Obs.] Bailey.
emulgent: Pertaining to the kidneys; renal; as, emulgent arteries andveins.-- n.
emulously: In an emulous manner.
emulousness: The quality of being emulous.
emulsic: Pertaining to, or produced from, emulsin; as, emulsic acid.Hoblyn.
emulsify: To convert into an emulsion; to form an emulsion; to reducefrom an oily substance to a milky fluid in which the fat globules arein a very finely divided state, giving it the semblance of solution;as, the pancreatic juice emulsifies the oily part of food.
emulsion: Any liquid preparation of a color and consistency resemblingmilk; as
emunctory: Any organ or part of the body (as the kidneys, skin, etc.,)which serves to carry off excrementitious or waste matter.
emuscation: A freeing from moss. [Obs.]
emyd: A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidæ.
emydea: A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh-water tortoises and terrapins.
en: Half an em, that is, half of the unit of space in measuringprinted matter. See Em.
en bloc: In a lump; as a whole; all together. "Movement of the ossiclesen bloc."  Nature.
en passant: In passing; in the course of any procedure; -- said specif.(Chess),
en rapport: In accord, harmony, or sympathy; having a mutual, esp. aprivate, understanding; of a hypnotic subject, being in such a mentalstate as to be especially subject to the influence of a particularperson or persons.
en route: On the way or road.
en-: A prefix signifying in or into, used in many English words,chiefly those borrowed from the French. Some English words arewritten indifferently with en- or in-. For ease of pronunciation itis commonly changed to em- before p, b, and m, as in employ, embody,emmew. It is sometimes used to give a causal force, as in enable,enfeeble, to cause to be, or to make, able, or feeble; and sometimesmerely gives an intensive force, as in enchasten. See In-.
enablement: The act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability.Bacon.
enact: Purpose; determination. [Obs.]
enactive: Having power to enact or establish as a law. Abp. Bramhall.
enactor: One who enacts a law; one who decrees or establishes as a law.Atterbury.
enacture: Enactment; resolution. [Obs.] Shak.
enaliosaur: One of the Enaliosauria.
enaliosauria: An extinct group of marine reptiles, embracing both theIchthyosauria and the Plesiosauria, now regarded as distinct orders.
enaliosaurian: Pertaining to the Enaliosauria.-- n.
enallage: A substitution, as of one part of speech for another, of onegender, number, case, person, tense, mode, or voice, of the sameword, for another.
enambush: To ambush. [Obs.]
enamel: A glassy, opaque bead obtained by the blowpipe.
enamelar: Consisting of enamel; resembling enamel; smooth; glossy. [R.]Craig.
enameled: Coated or adorned with enamel; having a glossy or variegatedsurface; glazed. [Written also enamelled.]
enamor: To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, orwith, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; tobe enamored of books or science. [Written also enamour.]Passionately enamored of this shadow of a dream. W. Irving.
enamorment: The state of being enamored. [R.]
enantiomorphous: Similar, but not superposable, i. e., related to each other asa right-handed to a left-handed glove; -- said of certain hemihedralcrystals.
enantiopathic: Serving to palliate; palliative. Dunglison.
enantiopathy: Allopathy; -- a term used by followers of Hahnemann, orhomeopathists.
enantiosis: A figure of speech by which what is to be understoodaffirmatively is stated negatively, and the contrary; affirmation bycontraries.
enarch: To arch. [Obs.] Lydgate.
enarched: Bent into a curve; -- said of a bend or other ordinary.
enargite: An iron-black mineral of metallic luster, occurring in smallorthorhombic crystals, also massive. It contains sulphur, arsenic,copper, and often silver.
enarmed: Same as Armed, 3.
enarration: A detailed exposition; relation. [Obs.] Hakewill.
enarthrodia: See Enarthrosis.-- En`ar*thro"di*al, a.
enarthrosis: A ball and socket joint, or the kind of articulationrepresented by such a joint. See Articulation.
enascent: Coming into being; nascent. [Obs.] Bp. Warburton.
enatation: A swimming out. [Obs.] Bailey.
enate: Growing out.
enation: Any unusual outgrowth from the surface of a thing, as of apetal; also, the capacity or act of producing such an outgrowth.
enaunter: Lest that. [Obs.] Spenser.
enavigate: To sail away or over. [Obs.] Cockeram.
enbattled: Embattled. [Obs.]
enbibe: To imbibe. [Obs.] Skelton.
enbroude: See Embroude.
encaenia: = Encenia.
encage: To confine in a cage; to coop up. Shak.
encalendar: To register in a calendar; to calendar. Drayton.
encamp: To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporaryhabitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, orform huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an armyor a company traveling.The host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim. 1Chron. xi. 15.
encanker: To canker. [Obs.]
encapsulation: The act of inclosing in a capsule; the growth of a membranearound (any part) so as to inclose it in a capsule.
encarnalize: To carnalize; to make gross. [R.] "Encarnalize their spirits."Tennyson.
encarpus: An ornament on a frieze or capital, consisting of festoons offruit, flowers, leaves, etc. [Written also encarpa.]
encase: To inclose as in a case. See Incase. Beau. & Fl.
encasement: An old theory of generation similar to emboOvulist.
encash: To turn into cash; to cash. Sat. Rev.
encashment: The payment in cash of a note, draft, etc.
encauma: An ulcer in the eye, upon the cornea, which causes the loss ofthe humors. Dunglison.
encaustic: Prepared by means of heat; burned in. Encaustic painting (FineArts), painting by means of wax with which the colors are combined,and which is afterwards fused with hot irons, thus fixing the colors.-- Encaustic tile (Fine Arts), an earthenware tile which has adecorative pattern and is not wholly of one color.
encave: To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess. "Do but encaveyourself." Shak.
enceinte: The line of works which forms the main inclosure of a fortressor place; -- called also body of the place.
encenia: A festival commemorative of the founding of a city or theconsecration of a church; also, the ceremonies (as at Oxford andCambridge, England) commemorative of founders or benefactors.
encense: To offer incense to or upon; to burn incense. [Obs.] Chaucer.
encephalic: Pertaining to the encephalon or brain.
encephalitis: Inflammation of the brain.-- En`ceph*a*lit"ic, a.
encephalocele: Hernia of the brain.
encephaloid: Resembling the material of the brain; cerebriform. Encephaloidcancer (Med.), a very malignant form of cancer of brainlikeconsistency. See under Cancer.
encephalology: The science which treats of the brain, its structure andfunctions.
encephalon: The contents of the cranium; the brain.
encephalopathy: Any disease or symptoms of disease referable to disorders ofthe brain; as, lead encephalopathy, the cerebral symptoms attendingchronic lead poisoning.
encephalos: The encephalon.In man the encephalos reaches its full size about seven years of age.Sir W. Hamilton.
encephalotomy: The act or art of dissecting the brain.
encephalous: Having a head; -- said of most Mollusca; -- opposed toacephalous.
enchafe: To chafe; to enrage; to heat. [Obs.] Shak.
enchafing: Heating; burning. [Obs.]The wicked enchaufing or ardure of this sin [lust]. Chaucer.
enchainment: The act of enchaining, or state of being enchained.
enchair: To seat in a chair. Tennyson.
enchannel: To make run in a channel. "Its waters were enchanneled." Sir D.Brewster.
enchanted: Under the power of enchantment; possessed or exercised byenchanters; as, an enchanted castle.
enchanter: One who enchants; a sorcerer or magician; also, one whodelights as by an enchantment.Like ghosts from an enchanter fleeing. Shelley.Enchanter's nightshade (Bot.), a genus (Circæa) of low inconspicuous,perennial plants, found in damp, shady places.
enchanting: Having a power of enchantment; charming; fascinating.-- En*chant"ing*ly, adv.
enchantress: A woman versed in magical arts; a sorceress; also, a woman whofascinates. Shak.
encharge: To charge (with); to impose (a charge) upon.His countenance would express the spirit and the passion of the parthe was encharged with. Jeffrey.
enchaser: One who enchases.
enchasten: To chasten. [Obs.]
enchest: To inclose in a chest. Vicars.
enchiridion: Handbook; a manual of devotions. Evelyn.
enchisel: To cut with a chisel.
enchodus: A genus of extinct Cretaceous fishes; -- so named from theirspear-shaped teeth. They were allied to the pike (Esox).
enchondroma: A cartilaginous tumor growing from the interior of a bone.Quain.
enchylemma: The basal substance of the cell nucleus; a hyaline or granularsubstance, more or less fluid during life, in which the other partsof the nucleus are imbedded.
enchyma: The primitive formative juice, from which the tissues,particularly the cellular tissue, are formed.
encincture: A cincture. [Poetic]The vast encincture of that gloomy sea. Wordsworth.
encindered: Burnt to cinders. [R.]
encircle: To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; tosurround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled thecity.Her brows encircled with his serpent rod. Parnell.
encirclet: A small circle; a ring. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
enclasp: To clasp. See Inclasp.
enclave: A tract of land or a territory inclosed within anotherterritory of which it is independent. See Exclave. [Recent]
enclavement: The state of being an enclave. [Recent]
enclitic: A word which is joined to another so closely as to lose itsproper accent, as the pronoun thee in prithee (pray thee).
enclitically: In an enclitic manner; by throwing the accent back. Walker.
enclitics: The art of declining and conjugating words.
encloister: To shut up in a cloister; to cloister.
enclose: To inclose. See Inclose.
enclosure: Inclosure. See Inclosure.
enclothe: To clothe.
encloud: To envelop in clouds; to cloud. [R.] Spenser.
encoach: To carry in a coach. [R.] Davies (Wit's Pilgr.)
encoffin: To put in a coffin. [R.]
encolden: To render cold. [Obs.]
encollar: To furnish or surround with a collar. [R.]
encolor: To color. [R.]
encolure: The neck of horse. R. Browning.
encomber: See Encumber. [Obs.]
encomberment: Hindrance; molestation.[Obs.] Spenser.
encomiast: One who praises; a panegyrist. Locke.
encomiastic: A panegyric. B. Jonson.
encomion: Encomium; panegyric. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
encomium: Warm or high praise; panegyric; strong commendation.His encomiums awakened all my ardor. W. Irving.
encompass: To circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; toencircle; to inclose; to environ; as, a ring encompasses the finger;an army encompasses a city; a voyage encompassing the world. Shak.A question may be encompassed with difficulty. C. J. Smith.The love of all thy sons encompass thee. Tennyson.
encompassment: The act of surrounding, or the state of being surrounded;circumvention.By this encompassment and drift of question. Shak.
encore: Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators ofplays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetitionof a particular part.
encorporing: Incorporation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
encoubert: One of several species of armadillos of the genera Dasypus andEuphractus, having five toes both on the fore and hind feet.
encounter: To come against face to face; to meet; to confront, either bychance, suddenly, or deliberately; especially, to meet in oppositionor with hostile intent; to engage in conflict with; to oppose; tostruggle with; as, to encounter a friend in traveling; two armiesencounter each other; to encounter obstacles or difficulties, toencounter strong evidence of a truth.Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoics,encountered him. Acts xvii. 18.I am most fortunate thus accidentally to encounter you. Shak.
encounterer: One who encounters; an opponent; an antagonist. Atterbury.
encourage: To give courage to; to inspire with courage, spirit, or hope;to raise, or to increase, the confidence of; to animate; enhearten;to incite; to help forward; -- the opposite of discourage.David encouraged himself in the Lord. 1 Sam. xxx. 6.
encourager: One who encourages, incites, or helps forward; a favorer.The pope is . . . a great encourager of arts. Addison.
encouraging: Furnishing ground to hope; inspiriting; favoring.-- En*cour"a*ging*ly, adv.
encowl: To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl) of. [R.] Drayton.
encradle: To lay in a cradle.
encratite: One of a sect in the 2d century who abstained from marriage,wine, and animal food; -- called also Continent.
encrease: i. [Obs.] See Increase.
encrimson: To give a crimson or red color to; to crimson. Shak.
encrinite: A fossil crinoid, esp. one belonging to, or resembling, thegenus Encrinus. Sometimes used in a general sense for any crinoid.
encrinoidea: That order of the Crinoidea which includes most of the livingand many fossil forms, having jointed arms around the margin of theoral disk; -- also called Brachiata and Articulata. See Illusts.under Comatula and Crinoidea.
encrinus: A genus of fossil encrinoidea, from the Mesozoic rocks.
encrisped: Curled. [Obs.] Skelton.
encroach: To enter by gradual steps or by stealth into the possessions orrights of another; to trespass; to intrude; to trench; -- commonlywith on or upon; as, to encroach on a neighbor; to encroach on thehighway.No sense, faculty, or member must encroach upon or interfere with theduty and office of another. South.Superstition, . . . a creeping and encroaching evil. Hooker.Exclude the encroaching cattle from thy ground. Dryden.
encroacher: One who by gradual steps enters on, and takes possession of,what is not his own.
encroachingly: By way of encroachment.
encroachment: An unlawful diminution of the possessions of another.
encrust: To incrust. See Incrust.
encrustment: That which is formed as a crust; incrustment; incrustation.Disengaging truth from its encrustment of error. I. Taylor.
encumberment: Encumbrance. [R.]
encumbrance: Same as Incumbrance.
encumbrancer: Same as Incumbrancer.
encurtain: To inclose with curtains.
encyclopediacal: Encyclopedic.
encyclopedian: Embracing the whole circle of learning, or a wide range ofsubjects.
encyclopedism: The art of writing or compiling encyclopedias; also, possessionof the whole range of knowledge; encyclopedic learning.
encyclopedist: The compiler of an encyclopedia, or one who assists in suchcompilation; also, one whose knowledge embraces the whole range ofthe sciences. The Encyclopedists, the writers of the great Frenchencyclopedia which appeared in 1751-1772. The editors were Diderotand D'Alembert. Among the contributors were Voltaire and Rousseau.
encyst: To inclose in a cyst.
encystation: Encystment.
encysted: Inclosed in a cyst, or a sac, bladder, or vesicle; as, anencysted tumor.The encysted venom, or poison bag, beneath the adder's fang.Coleridge.
encystment: A process which, among some of the lower forms of life,precedes reproduction by budding, fission, spore formation, etc.
end: One of the yarns of the worsted warp in a Brussels carpet.
endable: That may be ended; terminable.
endamage: To bring loss or damage to; to harm; to injure. [R.]The trial hath endamaged thee no way. Milton.
endamageable: Capable of being damaged, or injured; damageable. [Obs.]
endamagement: Damage; injury; harm. [Obs.] Shak.
endamnify: To damnify; to injure. [R.] Sandys.
endangerment: Hazard; peril. Milton.
endark: To darken. [Obs.] Feltham.
endaspidean: Having the anterior scutes extending around the tarsus on theinner side; -- said of certain birds.
endazzle: To dazzle. [Obs.] "Endazzled eyes." Milton.
endearedly: With affection or endearment; dearly.
endearedness: State of being endeared.
endearing: Making dear or beloved; causing love.-- En*dear"ing*ly, adv.
endearment: The act of endearing or the state of being endeared; also, thatwhich manifests, excites, or increases, affection. "The greatendearments of prudent and temperate speech." Jer. Taylor.Her first endearments twining round the soul. Thomson.
endeavor: To exert physical or intellectual strength for the attainmentof; to use efforts to effect; to strive to achieve or reach; to try;to attempt.It is our duty to endeavor the recovery of these beneficial subjects.Ld. Chatham.To endeavor one's self, to exert one's self strenuously to thefulfillment of a duty. [Obs.] "A just man that endeavoreth himself toleave all wickedness." Latimer.
endeavorer: One who makes an effort or attempt. [Written also endeavourer.]
endeavorment: Act of endeavoring; endeavor. [Obs.] Spenser.
endecagon: A plane figure of eleven sides and angles.
endecagynous: Having eleven pistils; as, an endecagynous flower.
endecane: One of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series, C11H24,found as a constituent of petroleum. [Written also hendecane.]
endecaphyllous: Composed of eleven leaflets; -- said of a leaf.
endeictic: Serving to show or exhibit; as, an endeictic dialogue, in thePlatonic philosophy, is one which exhibits a specimen of skill.Enfield.
endeixis: An indication.
endemial: Endemic. [R.]
endemic: An endemic disease.Fear, which is an endemic latent in every human heart, sometimesrises into an epidemic. J. B. Heard.
endemically: In an endemic manner.
endemiology: The science which treats of endemic affections.
endenization: The act of naturalizing. [R.]
endenize: To endenizen. [Obs.]
endenizen: To admit to the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize. [Obs.]B. Jonson.
ender: One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, theender of my life.
endermatic: Endermic.
endermic: Acting through the skin, or by direct application to the skin.Endermic method, that in which the medicine enters the system throughthe skin, being applied either to the sound skin, or to the surfacedenuded of the cuticle by a blister.
endermically: By the endermic method; as, applied endermically.
enderon: The deep sensitive and vascular layer of the skin and mucousmembranes.-- En`de*ron"ic, a.
endiademed: Diademed. [R.]
endiaper: To decorate with a diaper pattern.
endict: See Indict.
endictment: See Indictment.
ending: The final syllable or letter of a word; the part joined to thestem. See 3d Case, 5. Ending day, day of death. Chaucer.
endite: See Indite. Spenser.
endive: A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia). Its finely divided andmuch curled leaves, when blanched, are used for salad. Wild endive(Bot.), chicory or succory.
endlessly: In an endless manner.
endlessness: The quality of being endless; perpetuity.
endlong: Lengthwise; along. [Archaic]The doors were all of adamants eterne, I-clenched overthwart andendelong With iron tough. Chaucer.He pricketh endelong the large space. Chaucer.To thrust the raft endlong across the moat. Sir W. Scott.
endmost: Farthest; remotest; at the very end. Tylor.
endoblast: Entoblast; endoplast. See Nucleus,
endoblastic: Relating to the endoblast; as, the endoblastic layer.
endocarditis: Inflammation of the endocardium.
endocardium: The membrane lining the cavities of the heart.
endocarp: The inner layer of a ripened or fructified ovary.
endochondral: Growing or developing within cartilage; -- applied esp. todeveloping bone.
endochrome: The coloring matter within the cells of plants, whether green,red, yellow, or any other color.
endoctrine: To teach; to indoctrinate. [Obs.] Donne.
endocyst: The inner layer of the cells of Bryozoa.
endoderm: Of or pertaining to the endoderm.
endodermis: A layer of cells forming a kind of cuticle inside of the propercortical layer, or surrounding an individual fibrovascular bundle.
endogamous: Marrying within the same tribe; -- opposed to exogamous.
endogamy: Marriage only within the tribe; a custom restricting a man inhis choice of a wife to the tribe to which he belongs; -- opposed toexogamy.
endogen: A plant which increases in size by internal growth andelongation at the summit, having the wood in the form of bundles orthreads, irregularly distributed throughout the whole diameter, notforming annual layers, and with no distinct pith. The leaves of theendogens have, usually, parallel veins, their flowers are mostly inthree, or some multiple of three, parts, and their embryos have but asingle cotyledon, with the first leaves alternate. The endogensconstitute one of the great primary classes of plants, and includedall palms, true lilies, grasses, rushes, orchids, the banana,pineapple, etc. See Exogen.
endogenesis: Endogeny.
endogenetic: Endogenous.
endogenous: Increasing by internal growth and elongation at the summit,instead of externally, and having no distinction of pith, wood, andbark, as the rattan, the palm, the cornstalk.
endogenously: By endogenous growth.
endogeny: Growth from within; multiplication of cells by endogenousdivision, as in the development of one or more cells in the interiorof a parent cell.
endognath: The inner or principal branch of the oral appendages ofCrustacea. See Maxilla.
endognathal: Pertaining to the endognath.
endolymph: The watery fluid contained in the membranous labyrinth of theinternal ear.
endolymphangial: Within a lymphatic vessel.
endome: To cover as with a dome.
endometritis: Inflammation of the endometrium.
endometrium: The membrane lining the inner surface of the uterus, or womb.
endomorph: A crystal of one species inclosed within one of another, as oneof rutile inclosed in quartz.
endomysium: The delicate bands of connective tissue interspersed amongmuscular fibers.
endoneurium: The delicate bands of connective tissue among nerve fibers.
endoparasite: Any parasite which lives in the internal organs of an animal,as the tapeworms, Trichina, etc.; -- opposed to ectoparasite. SeeEntozoön.-- En`do*par`a*sit"ic, a.
endophloeum: The inner layer of the bark of trees.
endophragma: A chitinous structure above the nervous cord in the thorax ofcertain Crustacea.
endophragmal: Of or pertaining to the endophragma.
endophyllous: Wrapped up within a leaf or sheath.
endoplasm: The protoplasm in the interior of a cell.
endoplasma: Same as Entoplasm and Endosarc.
endoplast: See Nucleus.
endoplastica: A group of Rhizopoda having a distinct nucleus, as the am
endoplastule: See Nucleolus.
endopleura: The inner coating of a seed. See Tegmen.
endopleurite: The portion of each apodeme developed from the interepimeralmembrane in certain crustaceans.
endopodite: The internal or principal branch of the locomotive appendagesof Crustacea. See Maxilliped.
endorhiza: Any monocotyledonous plant; -- so named because manymonocotyledons have an endorhizal embryo.
endorse: Same as Indorse.
endorsee: Same as Indorsee.
endorsement: Same as Indorsement.
endorser: Same as Indorser.
endosarc: The semifluid, granular interior of certain unicellularorganisms, as the inner layer of sarcode in the amoeba; entoplasm;endoplasta.
endoscope: An instrument for examining the interior of the rectum, theurethra, and the bladder.
endoscopy: The art or process of examining by means of the endoscope.
endoskeletal: Pertaining to, or connected with, the endoskeleton; as,endoskeletal muscles.
endoskeleton: The bony, cartilaginous, or other internal framework of ananimal, as distinguished from the exoskeleton.
endosmometer: An instrument for measuring the force or amount of endosmoticaction.
endosmometric: Pertaining to, or designed for, the measurement of endosmoticaction.
endosmosmic: Endosmotic.
endosmotic: Pertaining to endosmose; of the nature endosmose; osmotic.Carpenter.
endosperm: The albumen of a seed; -- limited by recent writers to thatformed within the embryo sac.
endospermic: Relating to, accompanied by, or containing, endosperm.
endospore: The thin inner coat of certain spores.
endosporous: Having the spores contained in a case; -- applied to fungi.
endoss: To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the olderspelling of endorse. [Obs.] Spenser.
endosteal: Relating to endostosis; as, endosteal ossification.
endosternite: The part of each apodeme derived from the intersternal membranein Crustacea and insects.
endosteum: The layer of vascular connective tissue lining the medullarycavities of bone.
endostoma: A plate which supports the labrum in certain Crustacea.
endostome: The foramen or passage through the inner integument of anovule.
endostosis: A process of bone formation in which ossification takes placewithin the substance of the cartilage.
endostyle: A fold of the endoderm, which projects into the blood cavity ofascidians. See Tunicata.
endotheca: The tissue which partially fills the interior of theinterseptal chambers of most madreporarian corals. It usuallyconsists of a series of oblique tranverse septa, one above another.-- En`do*the"cal, a.
endothecium: The inner lining of an another cell.
endothelial: Of, or relating to, endothelium.
endothelium: The thin epithelium lining the blood vessels, lymphatics, andserous cavities. See Epithelium.
endotheloid: Like endothelium.
endothermic: Designating, or pert. to, a reaction which occurs withabsorption of heat; formed by such a reaction; as, an endothermicsubstance; -- opposed to exothermic.
endothorax: An internal process of the sternal plates in the thorax ofinsects.
endower: To endow. [Obs.] Waterhouse.
endozoa: See Entozoa.
endrudge: To make a drudge or slave of. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
endue: To invest. Latham.Tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power fromon high. Luke xxiv. 49.Endue them . . . with heavenly gifts. Book of Common Prayer.
enduement: Act of enduing; induement.
endurable: Capable of being endured or borne; sufferable. Macaulay.-- En*dur"a*ble*ness, n.
endurably: In an endurable manner.
endurant: Capable of enduring fatigue, pain, hunger, etc.The ibex is a remarkably endurant animal. J. G. Wood.
endurement: Endurance. [Obs.] South.
endurer: One who, or that which, endures or lasts; one who bears,suffers, or sustains.
enduring: Lasting; durable; long-suffering; as, an enduring disposition."A better and enduring substance." Heb. x. 34.-- En*dur"ing*ly, adv. T. Arnold.-- En*dur"ing*ness, n.
endyma: See Ependyma.
endysis: The act of developing a new coat of hair, a new set offeathers, scales, etc.; -- opposed to ecdysis.
enecate: To kill off; to destroy. [Obs.] Harvey.
eneid: Same as Æneid.
enema: An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine,or to impart nourishment. Hoblyn.
enemy: One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attemptsthe injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to aperson; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood.To all good he enemy was still. Spenser.I say unto you, Love your enemies. Matt. v. 44.The enemy (Mil.), the hostile force. In this sense it is construedwith the verb and pronoun either in the singular or the plural, butmore commonly in the singular; as, we have met the enemy and he isours or they are ours.It was difficult in such a country to track the enemy. It wasimpossible to drive him to bay. Macaulay.
enepidermic: Applied to the skin without friction; -- said of medicines.
energetics: That branch of science which treats of the laws governing thephysical or mechanical, in distinction from the vital, forces, andwhich comprehends the consideration and general investigation of thewhole range of the forces concerned in physical phenomena. [R.]
energize: To use strength in action; to act or operate with force orvigor; to act in producing an effect.Of all men it is true that they feel and energize first, they reflectand judge afterwards. J. C. Shairp.
energizer: One who, or that which, gives energy, or acts in producing aneffect.
energizing: Capable of imparting or exercising energy.Those nobler exercises of energizing love. Bp. Horsley.
energumen: One possessed by an evil spirit; a demoniac.
energy: Capacity for performing work.
enervate: To deprive of nerve, force, strength, or courage; to renderfeeble or impotent; to make effeminate; to impair the moral powersof.A man . . . enervated by licentiousness. Macaulay.And rhyme began t' enervate poetry. Dryden.
enervative: Having power, or a tendency, to enervate; weakening. [R.]
enerve: To weaken; to enervate. [Obs.] Milton.
enervous: Lacking nerve or force; enervated. [R.]
enfamish: To famish; to starve.
enfect: Contaminated with illegality. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enfeeble: To make feeble; to deprive of strength; to reduce the strengthor force of; to weaken; to debilitate.Enfeebled by scanty subsistence and excessive toil. Prescott.
enfeeblement: The act of weakening; enervation; weakness.
enfeebler: One who, or that which, weakens or makes feeble.
enfeeblish: To enfeeble. [Obs.] Holland.
enfeloned: Rendered fierce or frantic. [Obs.] "Like one enfeloned ordistraught." Spenser.
enfeoff: To give a feud, or right in land, to; to invest with a fief orfee; to invest (any one) with a freehold estate by the process offeoffment. Mozley & W.
enfester: To fester. [Obs.] "Enfestered sores." Davies (Holy Roode).
enfetter: To bind in fetters; to enchain. "Enfettered to her love." Shak.
enfever: To excite fever in. [R.] A. Seward.
enfierce: To make fierce. [Obs.] Spenser.
enfilade: A firing in the direction of the length of a trench, or a lineof parapet or troops, etc.; a raking fire.
enfiled: Having some object, as the head of a man or beast, impaled uponit; as, a sword which is said to be "enfiled of" the thing which itpierces.
enfire: To set on fire. [Obs.] Spenser.
enflesh: To clothe with flesh. [Obs.]Vices which are . . . enfleshed in him. Florio.
enfleurage: A process of extracting perfumes by exposing absorbents, asfixed oils or fats, to the exhalations of the flowers. It is used forplants whose volatile oils are too delicate to be separated bydistillation.
enflower: To cover or deck with flowers. [Poetic]These odorous and enflowered fields. B. Jonson.
enfold: To infold. See Infold.
enfoldment: The act of infolding. See Infoldment.
enforce: Force; strength; power. [Obs.]A petty enterprise of small enforce. Milton.
enforceable: Capable of being enforced.
enforced: Compelled; forced; not voluntary. "Enforced wrong." "Enforcedsmiles." Shak.-- En*for"ced*ly, adv. Shak.
enforcer: One who enforces.
enforcible: That may be enforced.
enforcive: Serving to enforce or constrain; compulsive. Marsion.-- En*for"cive*ly, adv.
enforest: To turn into a forest.
enform: To form; to fashion. [Obs.] Spenser.
enfouldred: Mixed with, or emitting, lightning. [Obs.] "With foulenfouldred smoke." Spenser.
enframe: To inclose, as in a frame.
enfranchiser: One who enfranchises.
enfree: To set free. [Obs.] "The enfreed Antenor." Shak.
enfreedom: To set free. [Obs.] Shak.
enfreeze: To freeze; to congeal. [Obs.]Thou hast enfrozened her disdainful breast. Spenser.
enfroward: To make froward, perverse, or ungovernable. [Obs.] Sir E.Sandys.
engage: To come into gear with; as, the teeth of one cogwheel engagethose of another, or one part of a clutch engages the other part.
engagedly: With attachment; with interest; earnestly.
engagedness: The state of being deeply interested; earnestness; zeal.
engagement: An action; a fight; a battle.In hot engagement with the Moors. Dryden.
engager: One who enters into an engagement or agreement; a surety.Several sufficient citizens were engagers. Wood.
engaging: Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as,engaging manners or address.-- En*ga"ging*ly, adv.-- En*ga"ging*ness, n. Engaging and disengaging gear or machinery,that in which, or by means of which, one part is alternately broughtinto gear or out of gear with another part, as occasion may require.
engallant: To make a gallant of. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
engaol: To put in jail; to imprison. [Obs.] Shak.
engarboil: To throw into disorder; to disturb. [Obs.] "To engarboil thechurch." Bp. Montagu.
engarland: To encircle with a garland, or with garlands. Sir P. Sidney.
engarrison: To garrison; to put in garrison, or to protect by a garrison.Bp. Hall.
engastrimuth: An ventriloquist. [Obs.]
engender: One who, or that which, engenders.
engendrure: The act of generation. [Obs.] Chaucer.
engild: To gild; to make splendent.Fair Helena, who most engilds the night. Shak.
engine: A compound machine by which any physical power is applied toproduce a given physical effect. Engine driver, one who manages anengine; specifically, the engineer of a locomotive.-- Engine lathe. (Mach.) See under Lathe.-- Engine tool, a machine tool. J. Whitworth.-- Engine turning (Fine Arts), a method of ornamentation by means ofa rose engine.
engine-sized: Sized by a machine, and not while in the pulp; -- said ofpaper. Knight.
engine-type generator: A generator having its revolving part carried on the shaft ofthe driving engine.
engineering: Originally, the art of managing engines; in its modern andextended sense, the art and science by which the mechanicalproperties of matter are made useful to man in structures andmachines; the occupation and work of an engineer.
engineman: A man who manages, or waits on, an engine.
enginer: A contriver; an inventor; a contriver of engines. [Obs.] Shak.
engird: To gird; to encompass. Shak.
engirdle: To surround as with a girdle; to girdle.
engirt: To engird. [R.] Collins.
engiscope: A kind of reflecting microscope. [Obs.]
englaimed: Clammy. [Obs.]
engle: A favorite; a paramour; an ingle. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
english: Of or pertaining to England, or to its inhabitants, or to thepresent so-called Anglo-Saxon race. English bond (Arch.)
englishable: Capable of being translated into, or expressed in, English.
englishman: A native or a naturalized inhabitant of England.
englishwoman: Fem. of Englishman. Shak.
engloom: To make gloomy. [R.]
englue: To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer wellenglued. Gower.
engorge: To feed with eagerness or voracity; to stuff one's self withfood. Beaumont.
engorged: Filled to excess with blood or other liquid; congested.
engorgement: An overfullness or obstruction of the vessels in some part ofthe system; congestion. Hoblyn.
engouled: Partly swallowed; disappearing in the jaws of anything; as, aninfant engouled by a serpent; said also of an ordinary, when its twoends to issue from the mouths of lions, or the like; as, a bendengouled.
engoulee: Same as Engouled.
engraff: To graft; to fix deeply. [Obs.]
engraffment: See Ingraftment. [Obs.]
engraft: See Ingraft. Shak.
engrail: To indent with small curves. See Engrailed.
engrailed: Indented with small concave curves, as the edge of a bordure,bend, or the like.
engrailment: Indentation in curved lines, as of a line of division or theedge of an ordinary.
engrapple: To grapple. [Obs.]
engrasp: To grasp; to grip. [R.] Spenser.
engrave: To deposit in the grave; to bury. [Obs.] "Their corses toengrave." Spenser.
engraved: Having the surface covered with irregular, impressed lines.
engraver: One who engraves; a person whose business it is to produceengraved work, especially on metal or wood.
engravery: The trade or work of an engraver. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
engregge: To aggravate; to make worse; to lie heavy on. [Obs.] Chaucer.
engrieve: To grieve. [Obs.] Spenser.
enguard: To surround as with a guard. [Obs.] Shak.
engulf: To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.It quite engulfs all human thought. Young.
engulfment: A swallowing up as if in a gulf. [R.]
engyn: Variant of Engine. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enhalo: To surround with a halo.
enhance: To be raised up; to grow larger; as, a debt enhances rapidly bycompound interest.
enhancement: The act of increasing, or state of being increased;augmentation; aggravation; as, the enhancement of value, price,enjoyments, crime.
enhancer: One who enhances; one who, or that which, raises the amount,price, etc.
enharbor: To find harbor or safety in; to dwell in or inhabit. W. Browne.
enharden: To harden; to embolden. [Obs.] Howell.
enharmonically: In the enharmonic style or system; in just intonation.
enhearten: To give heart to; to fill with courage; to embolden.The enemy exults and is enheartened. I. Taylor.
enhedge: To surround as with a hedge. [R.] Vicars.
enhort: To encourage. [Obs.] "To enhort the people." Chaucer.
enhunger: To make hungry.Those animal passions which vice had . . . enhungered to feed oninnocence and life. J. Martineau.
enhydros: A variety of chalcedony containing water.
enhydrous: Having water within; containing fluid drops; -- said of certaincrystals.
enigma: Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained oraccounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, anenigmatical answer.
enigmatically: Darkly; obscurely.
enigmatist: One who makes, or talks in, enigmas. Addison.
enigmatize: To make, or talk in, enigmas; to deal in riddles.
enisled: Placed alone or apart, as if on an island; severed, as anisland. [R.] "In the sea of life enisled." M. Arnold.
enjail: To put into jail; to imprison. [R.] Donne.
enjoin: To prohibit or restrain by a judicial order or decree; to putan injunction on.This is a suit to enjoin the defendants from disturbing theplaintiffs. Kent.
enjoiner: One who enjoins.
enjoinment: Direction; command; authoritative admonition. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
enjoy: To take satisfaction; to live in happiness. [R.] Milton.
enjoyable: Capable of being enjoyed or of giving joy; yielding enjoyment.Milton.
enjoyer: One who enjoys.
enkennel: To put into a kennel.
enkerchiefed: Bound with a kerchief; draped; hooded; covered. Milton.That soft, enkerchiefed hair. M. Arnold.
enlace: To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; toencircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle.Ropes of pearl her neck and breast enlace. P. Fletcher.
enlacement: The act of enlacing, or state of being enlaced; a surroundingas with a lace.
enlard: To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten. Shak.
enlarge: To get more astern or parallel with the vessel's course; todraw aft; -- said of the wind.
enlarged: Made large or larger; extended; swollen.-- En*lar"ged*ly, adv.-- En*lar"ged*ness, n.
enlarger: One that enlarges.
enlay: See Inlay.
enlengthen: To lengthen. [Obs.]
enleven: Eleven. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enlight: To illumine; to enlighten. [R.]Which from the first has shone on ages past, Enlights the present,and shall warm the last. Pope.
enlightener: One who enlightens or illuminates; one who, or that which,communicates light to the eye, or clear views to the mind.
enlightenment: Act of enlightening, or the state of being enlightened orinstructed.
enlimn: To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored anddecorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript. [R.]Palsgrave.
enlink: To chain together; to connect, as by links. Shak.
enlive: To enliven. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
enlivener: One who, or that which, enlivens, animates, or invigorates.
enlock: To lock; to inclose.
enlumine: To illumine. [Obs.] Spenser.
enlute: To coat with clay; to lute. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enmanche: Resembling, or covered with, a sleeve; -- said of the chiefwhen lines are drawn from the middle point of the upper edge upperedge to the sides.
enmarble: To make hard as marble; to harden. [Obs.] Spenser.
enmesh: To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes. Shak.My doubts enmesh me if I try. Lowell.
enmew: See Emmew.
enmist: To infold, as in a mist.
enmossed: Covered with moss; mossed. Keats.
enmove: See Emmove. [Obs.]
enmuffle: To muffle up.
enmure: To immure. [Obs.]
ennation: The ninth segment in insects.
ennead: The number nine or a group of nine. The Enneads, the titlegiven to the works of the philosopher Plotinus, published by hispupil Porphyry; -- so called because each of the six books into whichit is divided contains nine chapters.
enneagon: A polygon or plane figure with nine sides and nine angles; anonagon.
enneagonal: Belonging to an enneagon; having nine angles.
enneagynous: Having or producing nine pistils or styles; -- said of a floweror plant.
enneahedral: Having nine sides.
enneandria: A Linnæan class of plants having nine stamens.
enneapetalous: Having nine petals, or flower leaves.
enneaspermous: Having nine seeds; -- said of fruits.
ennew: To make new. [Obs.] Skelton.
enniche: To place in a niche. Sterne.
ennobler: One who ennobles.
ennui: A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor ofspirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium. T. Gray.
ennuye: Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted.
ennuyee: A woman affected with ennui. Mrs. Jameson.
enodal: Without a node. Gray.
enodation: The act or operation of clearing of knots, or of untying;hence, also, the solution of a difficulty. [R.] Bailey.
enode: To clear of knots; to make clear. [Obs.] Cockeram.
enoint: Anointed. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enomotarch: The commander of an enomoty. Mitford.
enomoty: A band of sworn soldiers; a division of the Spartan armyranging from twenty-five to thirty-six men, bound together by oath.
enopla: One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presenceof a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis.
enoptomancy: Divination by the use of a mirror.
enorm: Enormous. [Obs.] Spenser.
enormously: In an enormous degree.
enormousness: The state of being enormous.
enorthotrope: An optical toy; a card on which confused or imperfect figuresare drawn, but which form to the eye regular figures when the card israpidly revolved. See Thaumatrope.
enough: Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want;sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun towhich it belongs.How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and tospare! Luke xv. 17.
enouncement: Act of enouncing; that which is enounced.
enow: A form of Enough. [Archaic] Shak.
enpatron: To act the part of a patron towards; to patronize. [Obs.] Shak.
enpierce: To pierce. [Obs.] Shak.
enquere: To inquire. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enquicken: To quicken; to make alive. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.
enquire: See Inquire.
enquirer: See Inquirer.
enquiry: See Inquiry.
enrace: To enroot; to implant. [Obs.] Spenser.
enrage: To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to makefurious.
enragement: Act of enraging or state of being enraged; excitement. [Obs.]
enrank: To place in ranks or in order. [R.] Shak.
enrapt: Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured. Shak.
enrapture: To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; toenravish. Shenstone.
enravish: To transport with delight; to enrapture; to fascinate. Spenser.
enravishingly: So as to throw into ecstasy.
enravishment: The state of being enravished or enraptured; ecstasy; rapture.Glanvill.
enregister: To register; to enroll or record; to inregister.To read enregistered in every nook His goodness, which His beautydoth declare. Spenser.
enrheum: To contract a rheum. [Obs.] Harvey.
enricher: One who enriches.
enrichment: The act of making rich, or that which enriches; increase ofvalue by improvements, embellishment, etc.; decoration;embellishment.
enridge: To form into ridges. Shak.
enring: To encircle. [R.]The Muses and the Graces, grouped in threes, Enringed a billowingfountain in the midst. Tennyson.
enripen: To ripen. [Obs.] Donne.
enrive: To rive; to cleave. [Obs.]
enrobe: To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire.
enrockment: A mass of large stones thrown into water at random to formbases of piers, breakwaters, etc.
enroller: One who enrolls or registers.
enroot: To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep. Shak.
enround: To surround. [Obs.] Shak.
ens: Entity, being, or existence; an actually existing being; also,God, as the Being of Beings.
ensafe: To make safe. [Obs.] Hall.
ensample: An example; a pattern or model for imitation. [Obs.] Tyndale.Being ensamples to the flock.
ensanguine: To stain or cover with blood; to make bloody, or of a blood-redcolor; as, an ensanguined hue. "The ensanguined field." Milton.
ensate: Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform.
enscale: To cover with scales.
enschedule: To insert in a schedule. See Schedule. [R.] Shak.
ensconce: To cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hidesecurely; to conceal.She shall not see me
enseal: To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, toratify. [Obs.]This deed I do enseal. Piers Plowman.
enseam: To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain.Camden.
ensear: To sear; to dry up. [Obs.]Ensear thy fertile and conceptious womb. Shak.
ensearch: To make search; to try to find something. [Obs.] -- v. t.
enseel: To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk.[Obs.]
enseint: With child; pregnant. See Enceinte. [Obs.]
ensemble: The whole; all the parts taken together.
enshelter: To shelter. [Obs.]
enshield: To defend, as with a shield; to shield. [Archaic] Shak.
enshrine: To inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherishas something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory.We will enshrine it as holy relic. Massinger.
enshroud: To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to shroud. Churchill.
ensiferous: Bearing a sword.
ensiform: Having the form of a sword blade; sword-shaped; as, an ensiformleaf. Ensiform cartilage, and Ensiform process. (Anat.) SeeXiphisternum.
ensigncy: The rank or office of an ensign.
ensignship: The state or rank of an ensign.
ensilage: To preserve in a silo; as, to ensilage cornstalks.
ensile: To store (green fodder) in a silo; to prepare as silage. --En"si*list (#), n.
ensky: To place in the sky or in heaven. [R.] "A thing enskied andsainted." Shak.
enslave: To reduce to slavery; to make a slave of; to subject to adominant influence.The conquer'd, also, and enslaved by war, Shall, with their freedomlost, all virtue lose. Milton.Pleasure admitted in undue degree Enslaves the will. Cowper.
enslavedness: State of being enslaved.
enslavement: The act of reducing to slavery; state of being enslaved;bondage; servitude.A fresh enslavement to their enemies. South.
enslaver: One who enslaves. Swift.
ensnare: To catch in a snare. See Insnare.
ensnarl: To entangle. [Obs.] Spenser.
ensober: To make sober. [Obs.]Sad accidents to ensober his spirits. Jer. Taylor.
ensoul: To indue or imbue (a body) with soul. [R.] Emerson.
enstamp: To stamp; to mark asIt is the motive . . . which enstamps the character. Gogan.
enstate: See Instate.
enstatite: A mineral of the pyroxene group, orthorhombic incrystallization; often fibrous and massive; color grayish white orgreenish. It is a silicate of magnesia with some iron. Bronzite is aferriferous variety.
enstatitic: Relating to enstatite.
enstore: To restore. [Obs.] Wyclif.
enstyle: To style; to name. [Obs.]
ensuable: Ensuing; following.
ensue: To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake. [Obs.] "Seekpeace, and ensue it." 1 Pet. iii. 11.To ensue his example in doing the like mischief. Golding.
ensurer: See Insurer.
enswathe: To swathe; to envelop, as in swaddling clothes. Shak.
enswathement: The act of enswathing, or the state of being enswathed.
ensweep: To sweep over or across; to pass over rapidly. [R.] Thomson.
ent-: A prefix signifying within. See Ento-.
entablature: The superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns.See Illust. of Column, Cornice.
entablement: See Entablature. [R.] Evelyn.
entackle: To supply with tackle. [Obs.] Skelton.
entad: Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; --opposed to ectad. B. G. Wilder.
ental: Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner;-- opposed to ectal. B. G. Wilder.
entame: To tame. [Obs.] Shak.
entanglement: State of being entangled; intricate and confused involution;that which entangles; intricacy; perplexity.
entangler: One that entangles.
entasia: Tonic spasm; -- applied generically to denote any diseasecharacterized by tonic spasms, as tetanus, trismus, etc.
entasis: A slight convex swelling of the shaft of a column.
entassment: A heap; accumulation. [R.]
entastic: Relating to any disease characterized by tonic spasms.
entelechy: An actuality; a conception completely actualized, indistinction from mere potential existence.
entellus: An East Indian long-tailed bearded monkey (Semnopithecusentellus) regarded as sacred by the natives. It is remarkable for thecaplike arrangement of the hair on the head. Called also hoonoomaunand hungoor.
entend: To attend to; to apply one's self to. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ententive: Attentive; zealous. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enter-: A prefix signifying between, among, part.
enteradenography: A treatise upon, or description of, the intestinal glands.
enteradenology: The science which treats of the glands of the alimentary canal.
enteralgia: Pain in the intestines; colic.
enterdeal: Mutual dealings; intercourse. [Obs.]The enterdeal of princes strange. Spenser.
enterer: One who makes an entrance or beginning. A. Seward.
enteric: Of or pertaining to the enteron, or alimentary canal;intestinal. Enteric fever (Med.), typhoid fever.
enteritis: An inflammation of the intestines. Hoblyn.
enterlace: See Interlace.
entermete: To interfere; to intermeddle. [Obs.] Chaucer.
entermewer: A hawk gradually changing the color of its feathers, commonlyin the second year.
entermise: Mediation. [Obs.]
enterocele: A hernial tumor whose contents are intestine.
enterocoele: A perivisceral cavity which arises as an outgrowth oroutgrowths from the digestive tract; distinguished from aschizocoele, which arises by a splitting of the mesoblast of theembryo.
enterography: A treatise upon, or description of, the intestines; enterology.
enterolith: An intestinal concretion.
enterology: The science which treats of the viscera of the body.
enteron: The whole alimentary, or enteric, canal.
enteropathy: Disease of the intestines.
enteropneusta: A group of wormlike invertebrates having, along the sides ofthe body, branchial openings for the branchial sacs, which are formedby diverticula of the alimentary canal. Balanoglossus is the onlyknown genus. See Illustration in Appendix.
enterorrhaphy: The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal.
enterotome: A kind of scissors used for opening the intestinal canal, as inpost-mortem examinations.
enterotomy: Incision of the intestines, especially in reducing certaincases of hernia.
enterparlance: Mutual talk or conversation; conference. [Obs.] Sir J. Hayward.
enterplead: Same as Interplead.
enterprise: To undertake an enterprise, or something hazardous ordifficult. [R.] Pope.
enterpriser: One who undertakes enterprises. Sir J. Hayward.
enterprising: Having a disposition for enterprise; characterized byenterprise; resolute, active or prompt to attempt; as, anenterprising man or firm.-- En"ter*pri`sing*ly, adv.
entertain: To receive, or provide entertainment for, guests; as, heentertains generously.
entertainer: One who entertains.
entertaining: Affording entertainment; pleasing; amusing; diverting.-- En`ter*tain"ing*ly, adv.-- En`ter*tain"ing*ness, n.
entertake: To entertain. [Obs.]
entertissued: Same as Intertissued.
entheasm: Inspiration; enthusiasm. [R.] "Religious entheasm." Byron.
entheastic: Of godlike energy; inspired.-- En`the*as"tic*al*ly, adv.
entheat: Divinely inspired. [Obs.] Drummond.
enthetic: Caused by a morbifie virus implanted in the system; as, anenthetic disease like syphilis.
enthrall: To hold in thrall; to enslave. See Inthrall.The bars survive the captive they enthrall. Byron.
enthrallment: The act of enthralling, or state of being enthralled. SeeInthrallment.
enthrill: To pierce; to thrill. [Obs.] Sackville.
enthrone: To induct, as a bishop, into the powers and privileges of avacant see.
enthronement: The act of enthroning, or state of being enthroned. [Recent]
enthronization: The act of enthroning; hence, the admission of a bishop to hisstall or throne in his cathedral.
enthronize: To place on a throne; hence, to induct into office, as abishop.There openly enthronized as the very elected king. Knolles.
enthuse: To make or become enthusiastic. [Slang]
enthusiast: One moved or actuated by enthusiasm; as
enthusiastic: An enthusiast; a zealot. [Obs.]
enthymeme: An argument consisting of only two propositions, an antecedentand consequent deduced from it; a syllogism with one premise omitted;as, We are dependent; therefore we should be humble. Here the majorproposition is suppressed. The complete syllogism would be, Dependentcreatures should be humble; we are dependent creatures; therefore weshould be humble.
entice: To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract;as, the bait enticed the fishes. Often in a bad sense
enticeable: Capable of being enticed.
enticer: One who entices; one who incites or allures to evil. Burton.
enticing: That entices; alluring.
enticingly: In an enticing manner; charmingly. "She . . . sings mostenticingly." Addison.
entierty: See Entirety. [Obs.]
entire: A name originally given to a kind of beer combining qualitiesof different kinds of beer. [Eng.] "Foker's Entire." Thackeray.
entire-wheat: Designating, made of, or relating to, flour including aconsiderable part of the bran.
entitative: Considered as pure entity; abstracted from all circumstances.Ellis.-- En"ti*ta*tive*ly, adv.
entitule: To entitle. B. Jonson.
entity: A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or infact; being; essence; existence.Self-subsisting entities, such as our own personality. Shairp.Fortune is no real entity, . . . but a mere relative signification.Bentley.
ento-: A combining form signifying within; as, entoblast.
entoblast: The inner germ layer; endoderm. See Nucleolus.
entobronchium: One of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.
entoderm: See Endoderm, and Illust. of Blastoderm.
entogastric: Pertaining to the interior of the stomach; -- applied to a modeof budding from the interior of the gastric cavity, in certainhydroids.
entogenous: See Endogenous.
entoglossal: Within the tongue; -- applied to the glossohyal bone.
entoil: To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare. [R.]Entoiled in woofed phantasies. Keats.
entomb: To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; toinhume. Hooker.
entombment: The act of entombing or burying, or state of being entombed;burial. Barrow.
entomere: The more granular cells, which finally become internal, in manysegmenting ova, as those of mammals.
entomoid: Resembling an insect.-- n.
entomolin: See Chitin.
entomolite: A fossil insect.
entomologist: One versed in entomology.
entomologize: To collect specimens in the study of entomology. C. Kingsley.
entomophagan: Relating to the Entomophaga.-- n.
entomophagous: Feeding on insects; insectivorous.
entomophilous: Fertilized by the agency of insects; -- said of plants in whichthe pollen is carried to the stigma by insects.
entomostraca: One of the subclasses of Crustacea, including a large number ofspecies, many of them minute. The group embraces several orders; asthe Phyllopoda, Ostracoda, Copepoda, and Pectostraca. See Copepoda,Phyllopoda, and Cladocera.
entomostracan: Relating to the Entomostraca.-- n.
entomostracous: Belonging to the Entomostracans.
entomotomist: One who practices entomotomy.
entomotomy: The science of the dissection of insects.
entonic: Having great tension, or exaggerated action. Dunglison.
entoperipheral: Being, or having its origin, within the external surface of thebody; -- especially applied to feelings, such as hunger, produced byinternal disturbances. Opposed to epiperipheral.
entophyte: A vegetable parasite subsisting in the interior of the body.
entophytic: Of or pertaining to entophytes; as, an entophytic disease.
entoplastic: Pertaining to, or composed of, entoplasm; as, the entoplasticproducts of some Protozoa, or the entoplastic modification of thecell protoplasm, by which a nucleus is produced.
entoplastron: The median plate of the plastron of turtles; -- called alsoentosternum.
entoprocta: A group of Bryozoa in which the anus is within the circle oftentacles. See Pedicellina.
entoptic: Relating to objects situated within the eye; esp., relating tothe perception of objects in one's own eye.
entorganism: An internal parasitic organism.
entortilation: A turning into a circle; round figures. [Obs.] Donne.
entosternum: See Entoplastron.-- En`to*ster"nal, a.
entosthoblast: The granule within the nucleolus or entoblast of a nucleatedcell. Agassiz.
entothorax: See Endothorax.
entotic: Pertaining to the interior of the ear.
entourage: Surroundings; specif., collectively, one's attendants orassociates.
entozoa: Pertaining to, or consisting of, the Entozoa.
entrail: To interweave; to intertwine. [Obs.] Spenser.
entrain: To draw along as a current does; as, water entrained by steam.
entrammel: To trammel; to entangle. Bp. Hacket.
entrancement: The act of entrancing, or the state of trance or ecstasy.Otway.
entrap: To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap,by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch orinvolve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evilmen.A golden mesh, to entrap the hearts of men. Shak.
entreat: Entreaty. [Obs.] Ford.
entreatable: That may be entreated.
entreatance: Entreaty. [Obs.] Fairfax.
entreater: One who entreats; one who asks earnestly; a beseecher.
entreatful: Full of entreaty. [R.] See Intreatful.
entreatingly: In an entreating manner.
entreative: Used in entreaty; pleading. [R.] "Entreative phrase." A.Brewer.
entreatment: Entreaty; invitation. [Obs.] Shak.
entree: In French usage, a dish served at the beginning of dinner togive zest to the appetite; in English usage, a side dish, served witha joint, or between the courses, as a cutlet, scalloped oysters, etc.
entremets: A side dish; a dainty or relishing dish usually eaten after thejoints or principal dish; also, a sweetmeat, served with a dinner.
entrench: See Intrench.
entrepot: A warehouse; a magazine for depositing goods, stores, etc.; amart or place where merchandise is deposited; as, an entrepôt forshipping goods in transit.
entrepreneur: One who creates a product on his own account; whoeverundertakes on his own account an industrial enterprise in whichworkmen are employed. F. A. Walker.
entresol: A low story between two higher ones, usually between the groundfloor and the first story; mezzanine. Parker.
entrick: To trick, to perplex. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
entrochal: Pertaining to, or consisting of, entrochites, or the joints ofencrinites; -- used of a kind of stone or marble.
entrochite: A fossil joint of a crinoid stem.
entropion: Same as Entropium.
entropium: The inversion or turning in of the border of the eyelids.
entropy: A certain property of a body, expressed as a measurablequantity, such that when there is no communication of heat thequantity remains constant, but when heat enters or leaves the bodythe quantity increases or diminishes. If a small amount, h, of heatenters the body when its temperature is t in the thermodynamic scalethe entropy of the body is increased by h . The entropy is regardedas measured from some standard temperature and pressure. Sometimescalled the thermodynamic function.The entropy of the universe tends towards a maximum. Clausius.
entrust: See Intrust.
entry: The exhibition or depositing of a ship's papers at thecustomhouse, to procure license to land goods; or the giving anaccount of a ship's cargo to the officer of the customs, andobtaining his permission to land the goods. See Enter, v. t., 8, andEntrance, n.,
entryng: Am entrance. [Obs.]So great an entryng and so large. Chaucer.
entune: To tune; to intone. Chaucer.
entwine: To twine, twist, or wreathe together or round. [Written alsointwine.]Entwined in duskier wreaths her braided locks. Shelley.Thy glorious household stuff did me entwine. Herbert.
entwinement: A twining or twisting together or round; union. Bp. Hacket.
entwist: To twist or wreathe round; to intwine. Shak.
enubilate: To clear from mist, clouds, or obscurity. [R.] Bailey.
enubilous: Free from fog, mist, or clouds; clear. [R.]
enucleate: To remove without cutting (as a tumor).
enucleation: The act of enucleating; elucidation; exposition.Neither sir, nor water, nor food, seem directly to contributeanything to the enucleation of this disease. Tooke.
enumerate: To count; to tell by numbers; to count over, or tell off oneafter another; to number; to reckon up; to mention one by one; toname over; to make a special and separate account of; to recount; as,to enumerate the stars in a constellation.Enumerating the services he had done. Ludlow.
enumeration: A recapitulation, in the peroration, of the heads of anargument.
enumerative: Counting, or reckoning up, one by one.Enumerative of the variety of evils. Jer. Taylor.
enumerator: One who enumerates.
enunciable: Capable of being enunciated or expressed.
enunciate: To utter words or syllables articulately.
enunciative: Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation; declarative.Ayliffe.-- E*nun"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.
enunciator: One who enunciates or proclaims.
enunciatory: Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation or utterance.
enure: See Inure.
enuresis: An involuntary discharge of urine; incontinence of urine.
envassal: To make a vassal of. [Obs.]
envault: To inclose in a vault; to entomb. [R.] Swift.
enveigle: To entice. See Inveigle.
envelop: To put a covering about; to wrap up or in; to inclose within acase, wrapper, integument or the like; to surround entirely; as, toenvelop goods or a letter; the fog envelops a ship.Nocturnal shades this world envelop. J. Philips.
envenime: To envenom. [Obs.]
envermeil: To color with, or as with, vermilion; to dye red. [Obs.]Milton.
enviable: Fitted to excite envy; capable of awakening an ardent desire toposses or to resemble.One of most enviable of human beings. Macaulay.-- En"vi*a*ble*ness, n.-- En"vi*a*bly, adv.
envie: To vie; to emulate; to strive. [Obs.] Spenser.
envier: One who envies; one who desires inordinately what anotherpossesses.
envigor: To invigorate. [Obs.]
environ: To surround; to encompass; to encircle; to hem in; to be roundabout; to involve or envelop.Dwelling in a pleasant glade, With mountains round about environed.Spenser.Environed he was with many foes. Shak.Environ me with darkness whilst I write. Donne.
environs: The parts or places which surround another place, or lie in itsneighborhood; suburbs; as, the environs of a city or town.Chesterfield.
envisage: To look in the face of; to apprehend; to regard. [R.] Keats.From the very dawn of existence the infant must envisage self, andbody acting on self. McCosh.
envisagement: The act of envisaging.
envolume: To form into, or incorporate with, a volume. [R.]
envolup: To wrap up; to envelop. [Obs.] Chaucer.
envoy: An explanatory or commendatory postscript to a poem, essay, orbook; -- also in the French from, l'envoi.The envoy of a ballad is the "sending" of it forth. Skeat.
envoyship: The office or position of an envoy.
envyned: Stored or furnished with wine. [Obs.] Chaucer.
enwall: See Inwall. Sir P. Sidney.
enwallow: To plunge into, or roll in, flith; to wallow.So now all three one senseless lump remain, Enwallowed in his ownblack bloody gore. Spenser.
enwheel: To encircle. Shak.
enwiden: To widen. [Obs.]
enwind: To wind about; to encircle.In the circle of his arms Enwound us both. Tennyson.
enwoman: To endow with the qualities of a woman. [R.] Daniel.
enwrap: To envelop. See Inwrap.
enwrapment: Act of enwrapping; a wrapping or an envelope. Shuckford.
enwreathe: See Inwreathe. Shelton.
enzyme: An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from anorganized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment.Ptyalin, pepsin, diastase, and rennet are good examples of enzymes.
eocene: Pertaining to the first in time of the three subdivisions intowhich the Tertiary formation is divided by geologists, and alludingto the approximation in its life to that of the present era; as,Eocene deposits.-- n.
eolian: Formed, or deposited, by the action of wind, as dunes. Eolianattachment, Eolian harp. See Æolian.
eolic: See Æolic.
eolipile: Same as Æolipile.
eolis: A genus of nudibranch mollusks having clusters of branchialpapillæ along the back. See Ceratobranchia. [Written also Æolis.]
eophyte: A fossil plant which is found in the lowest beds of theSilurian age.
eophytic: Of or pertaining to eophytes.
eos: Aurora, the goddess of morn.
eosaurus: An extinct marine reptile from the coal measures of NovaScotia; -- so named because supposed to be of the earliest knownreptiles.
eosin: A yellow or brownish red dyestuff obtained by the action ofbromine on fluoresceïn, and named from the fine rose-red which itimparts to silk. It is also used for making a fine red ink. Itssolution is fluorescent.
eosphorite: A hydrous phosphate of alumina and manganese. It is generallyof a rose-pink color, -- whence the name.
eozoic: Of or pertaining to rocks or strata older than the Paleozoic,in many of which the eozoön has been found.
ep-: See Epi-.
epacris: A genus of shrubs, natives of Australia, New Zealand, etc.,having pretty white, red, or purple blossoms, and much resemblingheaths.
epact: The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or thenumber of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginningof the year. Annual epact, the excess of the solar year over thelunar year, -- being eleven days.-- Menstrual epact, or Monthly epact, the excess of a calendar monthover a lunar.
epagoge: The adducing of particular examples so as to lead to auniversal conclusion; the argument by induction.
epagogic: Inductive. Latham.
epalate: Without palpi.
epanadiplosis: A figure by which the same word is used both at the beginningand at the end of a sentence; as, "Rejoice in the Lord always
epanalepsis: A figure by which the same word or clause is repeated afterintervening matter. Gibbs.
epanaphora: Same as Anaphora. Gibbs.
epanastrophe: Same as Anadiplosis. Gibbs.
epanodos: A figure of speech in which the parts of a sentence or clauseare repeated in inverse order, as in the following
epanody: The abnormal change of an irregular flower to a regular form; -- considered by evolutionists to be a reversion to an ancestralcondition.
epanorthosis: A figure by which a speaker recalls a word or words, in orderto substitute something else stronger or more significant; as, Mostbrave! Brave, did I say most heroic act!
epanthous: Growing upon flowers; -- said of certain species of fungi.
eparch: In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; inmodern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy.
eparchy: A province, prefecture, or territory, under the jurisdiction ofan eparch or governor; esp., in modern Greece, one of the largersubdivisions of a monarchy or province of the kingdom; in Russia, adiocese or archdiocese.
eparterial: Situated upon or above an artery; -- applied esp. to thebranches of the bronchi given off above the point where the pulmonaryartery crosses the bronchus.
epaule: The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face andflank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder.
epaulement: A side work, made of gabions, fascines, or bags, filled withearth, or of earth heaped up, to afford cover from the flanking fireof an enemy.
epaxial: Above, or on the dorsal side of, the axis of the skeleton;episkeletal.
epeira: A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E.diadema). They spin geometrical webs. See Garden spider.
epen: See Epencephalon.
epencephalon: The segment of the brain next behind the midbrain, includingthe cerebellum and pons; the hindbrain. Sometimes abbreviated toepen.
ependyma: The epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and thecanal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis.
ependymis: See Ependyma.
epenetic: Bestowing praise; eulogistic; laudatory. [Obs.] E. Phillips.
epenthesis: The insertion of a letter or a sound in the body of a word; as,the b in "nimble" from AS. nemol.
epenthetic: Inserted in the body of a word; as, an epenthetic letter orsound.
epergne: A centerpiece for table decoration, usually consisting ofseveral dishes or receptacles of different sizes grouped together inan ornamental design.
eperlan: The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus).
epexegesis: A full or additional explanation; exegesis.
epexegetical: Relating to epexegesis; explanatory; exegetical.
ephemera: A fever of one day's continuance only.
ephemeral: Anything lasting but a day, or a brief time; an ephemeralplant, insect, etc.
ephemeran: One of the ephemeral flies.
ephemeric: Ephemeral.
ephemeris: A collective name for reviews, magazines, and all kinds ofperiodical literature. Brande & C.
ephemeron: One of the ephemeral flies.
ephemerous: Ephemeral. [R.] Burke.
ephesian: Of or pertaining to Ephesus, an ancient city of Ionia, in AsiaMinor.
ephialtes: The nightmare. Brande & C.
ephippial: Saddle-shaped; occupying an ephippium. Dana.
ephippium: A depression in the sphenoid bone; the pituitary fossa.
ephod: A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering forthe back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps orbrooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of thesame stuff as the ephod. The ephod for the priests was of plainlinen; that for the high priest was richly embroidered in colors. Thebreastplate of the high priest was worn upon the ephod in front.Exodus xxviii. 6-12.
ephor: A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by thepeople of ancient Sparta. They exercised control even over the king.
ephoral: Pertaining to an ephor.
ephoralty: The office of an ephor, or the body of ephors.
ephraim: A hunter's name for the grizzly bear.
ephyra: A stage in the development of discophorous medusæ, when theyfirst begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila. SeeStrobila.
epi-: A prefix, meaning upon, beside, among, on the outside, above,over. It becomes ep- before a vowel, as in epoch, and eph- before aGreek aspirate, as in ephemeral.
epiblast: The outer layer of the blastoderm; the ectoderm. SeeBlastoderm, Delamination.
epiblastic: Of or relating to, or consisting of, the epiblast.
epiblema: The epidermal cells of rootlets, specially adapted to absorbliquids. Goodale.
epibolic: Growing or covering over; -- said of a kind of invagination.See under Invagination.
epiboly: Epibolic invagination. See under Invagination.
epibranchial: Pertaining to the segment between the ceratobranchial andpharyngobranchial in a branchial arch.-- n.
epic: Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kindof narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real orfictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, arenarrated in an elevated style.The epic poem treats of one great, complex action, in a grand styleand with fullness of detail. T. Arnold.
epical: Epic.-- Ep"ic*al*ly, adv.Poems which have an epical character. Brande & C.His [Wordsworth's] longer poems (miscalled epical). Lowell.
epicardiac: Of or relating to the epicardium.
epicardium: That of the pericardium which forms the outer surface of theheart; the cardiac pericardium.
epicarican: An isopod crustacean, parasitic on shrimps.
epicarp: The external or outermost layer of a fructified or ripenedovary. See Illust. under Endocarp.
epicede: A funeral song or discourse; an elegy. [R.] Donne.
epicedial: Elegiac; funereal.
epicedian: Epicedial.-- n.
epicedium: An epicede.
epicentral: Arising from the centrum of a vertebra. Owen.
epicerastic: Lenient; assuaging. [Obs.]
epichirema: A syllogism in which the proof of the major or minor premise,or both, is introduced with the premises themselves, and theconclusion is derived in the ordinary manner. [Written alsoepicheirema.]
epichordal: Upon or above the notochord; -- applied esp. to a vertebralcolumn which develops upon the dorsal side of the notochord, asdistinguished from a perichordal column, which develops around it.
epichorial: In or of the country. [R.]Epichorial superstitions from every district of Europe. De Quincey.
epicleidium: A projection, formed by a separate ossification, at thescapular end of the clavicle of many birds.
epiclinal: Situated on the receptacle or disk of a flower.
epicoene: Epicene. [R.] Hadley.
epicolic: Situated upon or over the colon; -- applied to the region ofthe abdomen adjacent to the colon.
epicondylar: Pertaining to, or resembling, an epicondyle.
epicondyle: A projection on the inner side of the distal end of thenumerus; the internal condyle.
epicoracoid: A ventral cartilaginous or bony element of the coracoid in theshoulder girdle of some vertebrates.
epicranial: Pertaining to the epicranium; as epicranial muscles.
epicranium: The upper and superficial part of the head, including thescalp, muscles, etc.
epicureanism: Attachment to the doctrines of Epicurus; the principles orbelief of Epicurus.
epicurely: Luxuriously. Nash.
epicureous: Epicurean. [Obs.]
epicycle: A circle, whose center moves round in the circumference of agreater circle; or a small circle, whose center, being fixed in thedeferent of a planet, is carried along with the deferent, and yet, byits own peculiar motion, carries the body of the planet fastened toit round its proper center.The schoolmen were like astronomers which did feign eccentries, andepicycles, and such engines of orbs. Bacon.
epicyclic: Pertaining to, resembling, or having the motion of, anepicycle. Epicyclic train (Mach.), a train of mechanism in whichepicyclic motion is involved; esp., a train of spur wheels, bevelwheels, or belt pulleys, in which an arm, carrying one or more of thewheels, sweeps around a center lying in an axis common to the otherwheels.
epicycloid: A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circlewhich rolls on the convex side of a fixed circle.
epicycloidal: Pertaining to the epicycloid, or having its properties.Epicycloidal wheel, a device for producing straight-line motion fromcircular motion, on the principle that a pin fastened in theperiphery of a gear wheel will describe a straight line when thewheel rolls around inside a fixed internal gear of twice itsdiameter.
epideictic: Serving to show forth, explain, or exhibit; -- applied by theGreeks to a kind of oratory, which, by full amplification, seeks topersuade.
epidemic: An epidemic disease.
epidemically: In an epidemic manner.
epidemiography: A treatise upon, or history of, epidemic diseases.
epidemiological: Connected with, or pertaining to, epidemiology.
epidemiologist: A person skilled in epidemiology.
epidemiology: That branch of science which treats of epidemics.
epidemy: An epidemic disease. Dunglison.
epiderm: The epidermis.
epidermal: Of or pertaining to the epidermis; epidermic; cuticular.
epidermatic: Epidermal. [R.]
epidermatoid: Epidermoid. Owen.
epidermeous: Epidermal. [R.]
epidermic: Epidermal; connected with the skin or the bark. Epidermicadministration of medicine (Med.), the application of medicine to theskin by friction.
epidermical: Epidermal. [R.]
epidermidal: Epidermal. [R.]
epidermis: The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin.See Dermis.
epidermoid: Like epidermis; pertaining to the epidermis.
epidermose: Keratin.
epididymis: An oblong vermiform mass on the dorsal side of the testicle,composed of numerous convolutions of the excretory duct of thatorgan.-- Ep`i*did"y*mal, a.
epididymitis: Inflammation of the epididymis, one of the common results ofgonorrhea.
epidote: A mineral, commonly of a yellowish green (pistachio) color,occurring granular, massive, columnar, and in monoclinic crystals. Itis a silicate of alumina, lime, and oxide of iron, or manganese.
epidotic: Related to, resembling, or containing epidote; as, an epidoticgranite.
epigaea: An American genus of plants, containing but a single species(E. repens), the trailing arbutus.
epigaeous: Growing on, or close to, the ground.
epigastrial: Epigastric.
epigastric: Pertaining to the epigastrium, or to the epigastric region.
epigastrium: The upper part of the abdomen.
epigeal: Epigæous. [R.]
epigee: See Perigee. [Obs.]
epigene: Foreign; unnatural; unusual; -- said of forms of crystals notnatural to the substances in which they are found.
epigenesis: The theory of generation which holds that the germ is createdentirely new, not merely expanded, by the procreative power of theparents. It is opposed to the theory of evolution, also tosyngenesis.
epigenesist: One who believes in, or advocates the theory of, epigenesis.
epigenetic: Of or pertaining to the epigenesis; produced according to thetheory of epigenesis.
epigeous: Same as Epigæous.
epigeum: See Perigee. [Obs.]
epiglottic: Pertaining to, or connected with, the epiglottis.
epiglottidean: Same as Epiglottic.
epiglottis: A cartilaginous lidlike appendage which closes the glottiswhile food or drink is passing while food or drink is passing throughthe pharynx.
epignathous: Hook-billed; having the upper mandible longer than the lower.
epigrammatically: In the way of epigram; in an epigrammatic style.
epigrammatist: One who composes epigrams, or makes use of them.The brisk epigrammatist showing off his own cleverness. Holmes.
epigrammatize: To represent by epigrams; to express by epigrams.
epigrammatizer: One who writes in an affectedly pointed style.Epigrammatizers of our English prose style. Coleridge.
epigrammist: An epigrammatist. Jer. Taylor.
epigraph: A citation from some author, or a sentence framed for thepurpose, placed at the beginning of a work or of its separatedivisions; a motto.
epigraphics: The science or study of epigraphs.
epigraphist: A student of, or one versed in, epigraphy.
epigraphy: The science of inscriptions; the art of engraving inscriptionsor of deciphering them.
epigynous: Adnate to the surface of the ovary, so as to be apparentlyinserted upon the top of it; -- said of stamens, petals, sepals, andalso of the disk.
epihyal: A segment next above the ceratohyal in the hyoidean arch.
epilepsy: The "falling sickness," so called because the patient fallssuddenly to the ground; a disease characterized by paroxysms (orfits) occurring at interval and attended by sudden loss ofconsciousness, and convulsive motions of the muscles. Dunglison.
epileptic: Pertaining to, affected with, or of the nature of, epilepsy.
epileptical: Epileptic.
epileptiform: Resembling epilepsy.
epileptogenous: Producing epilepsy or epileptoid convulsions; -- applied toareas of the body or of the nervous system, stimulation of whichproduces convulsions.
epileptoid: Resembling epilepsy; as, epileptoid convulsions.
epilogation: A summing up in a brief account. [Obs.] Udall.
epilogism: Enumeration; computation. [R.] J. Gregory.
epilogistic: Of or pertaining to epilogue; of the nature of an epilogue. T.Warton.
epilogize: To speak an epilogue to; to utter as an epilogue.
epilogue: A speech or short poem addressed to the spectators and recitedby one of the actors, after the conclusion of the play.A good play no epilogue, yet . . . good plays prove the better by thehelp of good epilogues. Shak.
epiloguize: Same as Epilogize.
epimachus: A genus of highly ornate and brilliantly colored birds ofAustralia, allied to the birds of Paradise.
epimera: See Epimeron.
epimeral: Pertaining to the epimera.
epimere: One of the segments of the transverse axis, or the so calledhomonymous parts; as, for example, one of the several segments of theextremities in vertebrates, or one of the similar segments in plants,such as the segments of a segmented leaf. Syd. Soc. Lex.
epinastic: A term applied to that phase of vegetable growth in which anorgan grows more rapidly on its upper than on its under surface. SeeHyponastic.
epineural: Arising from the neurapophysis of a vertebra.
epineurium: The connective tissue framework and sheath of a nerve whichbind together the nerve bundles, each of which has its own specialsheath, or perineurium.
epinglette: An iron needle for piercing the cartridge of a cannon beforepriming.
epinicial: Relating to victory. "An epinicial song." T. Warton.
epinicion: A song of triumph. [Obs.] T. Warton.
epinikian: Epinicial.
epiornis: One of the gigantic ostrichlike birds of the genus Æpiornis,only recently extinct. Its remains have been found in Madagascar.[Written also Æpyornis.]
epiotic: The upper and outer element of periotic bone, -- in man forminga part of the temporal bone.
epipedometry: The mensuration of figures standing on the same base. [Obs.]
epiperipheral: Connected with, or having its origin upon, the external surfaceof the body; -- especially applied to the feelings which originate atthe extremities of nerves distributed on the outer surface, as thesensation produced by touching an object with the finger; -- opposedto entoperipheral. H. Spenser.
epipetalous: Borne on the petals or corolla.
epiphany: A church festival celebrated on the 6th of January, the twelfthday after Christmas, in commemoration of the visit of the Magi of theEast to Bethlehem, to see and worship the child Jesus; or, as othersmaintain, to commemorate the appearance of the star to the Magi,symbolizing the manifestation of Christ to the Gentles; Twelfthtide.
epipharyngeal: Pertaining to the segments above the epibranchial in thebranchial arches of fishes.-- n.
epipharynx: A structure which overlaps the mouth of certain insects.
epiphonema: An exclamatory sentence, or striking reflection, which sums upor concludes a discourse.
epiphoneme: Epiphonema. [R.]
epiphora: The watery eye; a disease in which the tears accumulate in theeye, and trickle over the cheek.
epiphragm: A membranaceous or calcareous septum with which some mollusksclose the aperture of the shell during the time of hibernation, oræstivation.
epiphyllospermous: Bearing fruit on the back of the leaves, as ferns. Harris(1710).
epiphyllous: Growing upon, or inserted into, the leaf.
epiphyllum: A genus of cactaceous plants having flattened, jointed stems,and petals united in a tube. The flowers are very showy, and severalspecies are in cultivation.
epiphytal: Pertaining to an epiphyte.
epiphyte: An air plant which grows on other plants, but does not deriveits nourishment from them. See Air plant.
epiplastron: One of the first pair of lateral plates in the plastron ofturtles.
epipleural: Arising from the pleurapophysis of a vertebra. Owen.
epiplexis: A figure by which a person seeks to convince and move by anelegant kind of upbraiding.
epiploce: A figure by which one striking circumstance is added, in duegradation, to another; climax; e. g., "He not only spared hisenemies, but continued them in employment; not only continued, butadvanced them." Johnson.
epiploic: Relating to the epiploön.
epipodial: Pertaining to the epipodialia or the parts of the limbs towhich they belong.
epipodiale: One of the bones of either the forearm or shank, theepipodialia being the radius, ulna, tibia, and fibula.
epipodite: The outer branch of the legs in certain Crustacea. SeeMaxilliped.
epipodium: One of the lateral lobes of the foot in certain gastropods.
epipolic: Producing, or relating to, epipolism or fluorescence. [R.]
epipolism: See Fluorescence. [R.] Sir J. Herschel.
epipolized: Changed to the epipolic condition, or that in which thephenomenon of fluorescence is presented; produced by fluorescence;as, epipolized light. [R.] Stokes.
epipteric: Pertaining to a small Wormian bone sometimes present in thehuman skull between the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid.-- n.
epipterygoid: Situated upon or above the pterygoid bone.-- n.
epipubic: Relating to the epipubis.
epipubis: A cartilage or bone in front of the pubis in some amphibiansand other animals.
episcopacy: Government of the church by bishops; church government by threedistinct orders of ministers -- bishops, priests, and deacons -- ofwhom the bishops have an authority superior and of a different kind.
episcopalian: Pertaining to bishops, or government by bishops; episcopal;specifically, of or relating to the Protestant Episcopal Church.
episcopalianism: The doctrine and usages of Episcopalians; episcopacy.
episcopally: By episcopal authority; in an episcopal manner.
episcopant: A bishop. [Obs.] Milton.
episcoparian: Episcopal. [R.] Wood.
episcopate: To act as a bishop; to fill the office of a prelate. [Obs.]Feeding the flock episcopating. Milton.
episcopicide: The killing of a bishop.
episcopize: To make a bishop of by consecration. Southey.
episepalous: Growing on the sepals or adnate to them.
episkeletal: Above or outside of the endoskeleton; epaxial.
episodal: Same as Episodic.
episode: A separate incident, story, or action, introduced for thepurpose of giving a greater variety to the events related; anincidental narrative, or digression, separable from the main subject,but naturally arising from it.
episodial: Pertaining to an episode; by way of episode; episodic.
epispadias: A deformity in which the urethra opens upon the top of thepenis, instead of at its extremity.
epispastic: Attracting the humors to the skin; exciting action in the skin;blistering.
episperm: The skin or coat of a seed, especially the outer coat. SeeTesta.
epispermic: Pertaining, or belonging, to the episperm, or covering of aseed.
epispore: The thickish outer coat of certain spores.
epistaxis: Bleeding at the nose.
epistemology: The theory or science of the method or grounds of knowledge.
episternal: Of or pertaining to the episternum.
episternum: One of the lateral pieces next to the sternum in the thorax ofinsects.
epistilbite: A crystallized, transparent mineral of the Zeolite family. Itis a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime.
epistle: One of the letters in the New Testament which were addressed totheir Christian brethren by Apostles. Epistle side, the right side ofan altar or church to a person looking from the nave toward thechancel.One sees the pulpit on the epistle side. R. Browning.
epistler: The ecclesiastic who reads the epistle at the communionservice.
epistolar: Epistolary. Dr. H. More.
epistolean: One who writes epistles; a correspondent. Mary Cowden Clarke.
epistoler: One of the clergy who reads the epistle at the communionservice; an epistler.
epistolet: A little epistle. Lamb.
epistolize: To write epistles.
epistolizer: A writer of epistles.
epistolographic: Pertaining to the writing of letters; used in writing letters;epistolary. Epistolographic character or mode of writing, the same asDemotic character. See under Demotic.
epistolography: The art or practice of writing epistles.
epistrophe: A figure in which successive clauses end with the same word oraffirmation; e. g., "Are they Hebrews so am I. Are they Israelites soam I." 2 Cor. xi. 22.
epistyle: A massive piece of stone or wood laid immediately on the abacusof the capital of a column or pillar; -- now called architrave.
episyllogism: A syllogism which assumes as one of its premises a propositionwhich was the conclusion of a preceding syllogism, called, inrelation to this, the prosyllogism.
epitaph: To commemorate by an epitaph. [R.]Let me be epitaphed the inventor of English hexameters. G. Harvey.
epitapher: A writer of epitaphs. Nash.
epitaphic: Pertaining to an epitaph; epitaphian.-- n.
epitaphist: An epitapher.
epitasis: The period of violence in a fever or disease; paroxysm.Dunglison.
epithalamic: Belonging to, or designed for, an epithalamium.
epithalamium: A nuptial song, or poem in honor of the bride and bridegroom.The kind of poem which was called epithalamium . . . sung when thebride was led into her chamber. B. Jonson.
epithalamy: Epithalamium. [R.] Donne.
epitheca: A continuous and, usually, structureless layer which coversmore or less of the exterior of many corals.
epithelial: Of or pertaining to epithelium; as, epithelial cells;epithelial cancer.
epithelioid: Like epithelium; as, epithelioid cells.
epithelioma: A malignant growth containing epithelial cells; -- called alsoepithelial cancer.
epithelium: The superficial layer of cells lining the alimentary canal andall its appendages, all glands and their ducts, blood vessels andlymphatics, serous cavities, etc. It often includes the epidermis (i.e., keratin-producing epithelial cells), and it is sometimesrestricted to the alimentary canal, the glands and their appendages,-- the term endothelium being applied to the lining membrane of theblood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities.
epitheloid: Epithelioid.
epithem: Any external topical application to the body, except ointmentsand plasters, as a poultice, lotion, etc.
epithema: A horny excrescence upon the beak of birds.
epithesis: The addition of a letter at the end of a word, without changingits sense; as, numb for num, whilst for whiles.
epithet: To describe by an epithet. [R.]Never was a town better epitheted. Sir H. Wotton.
epithite: A lazy, worthless fellow; a vagrant. [Obs.] Mason.
epithumetic: Epithumetical. [Obs.]
epithumetical: Pertaining to sexual desire; sensual. Sir T. Browne.
epitithides: The uppermost member of the cornice of an entablature.
epitomator: An epitomist. Sir W. Hamilton.
epitomist: One who makes an epitome; one who abridges; an epitomizer.Milton.
epitomizer: An epitomist. Burton.
epitrite: A foot consisting of three long syllables and one shortsyllable.
epitrochlea: A projection on the outer side of the distal end of thehumerus; the external condyle.
epitrochlear: Relating to the epitrochlea.
epitrochoid: A kind of curve. See Epicycloid, any Trochoid.
epitrope: A figure by which permission is either seriously or ironicallygranted to some one, to do what he proposes to do; e. g., "He that isunjust, let him be unjust still."
epizeuxis: A figure by which a word is repeated with vehemence oremphasis, as in the following lines
epizoan: An epizoön.
epizoic: Living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- saidof external parasites.
epoch: A division of time characterized by the prevalence of similarconditions of the earth; commonly a minor division or part of aperiod.The long geological epoch which stored up the vast coal measures. J.C. Shairp.
epocha: See Epoch. J. Adams.
epochal: Belonging to an epoch; of the nature of an epoch. "Epochalpoints." Shedd.
epodic: Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.
eponymic: Same as Eponymous.Tablets . . . which bear eponymic dates. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
eponymist: One from whom a race, tribe, city, or the like, took its name;an eponym.
eponymous: Relating to an eponym; giving one's name to a tribe, people,country, and the like.What becomes . . . of the Herakleid genealogy of the Spartan kings,when it is admitted that eponymous persons are to be canceled asfictions Grote.
eponymy: The derivation of the name of a race, tribe, etc., from that ofa fabulous hero, progenitor, etc.
epopt: One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system. Carlyle.
epos: An epic.
epotation: A drinking up; a quaffing. [Obs.] Feltham.
eprouvette: An apparatus for testing or proving the strength of gunpowder.
epsomite: Native sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt.
epulary: Of or pertaining to a feast or banquet. [Obs.] Smart.
epulation: A feasting or feast; banquet. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
epulis: A hard tumor developed from the gums.
epulose: Feasting to excess. [Obs.]
epulosity: A feasting to excess. [Obs.]
epulotic: Promoting the skinning over or healing of sores; as, anepulotic ointment.-- n.
epuration: Purification.
epure: A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of thefull size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing.
epworth league: A religious organization of Methodist young people, founded in1889 at Cleveland, Ohio, and taking its name from John Wesley'sbirthplace, Epworth, Lincolnshire, England.
equability: The quality or condition of being equable; evenness oruniformity; as, equability of temperature; the equability of themind.For the celestial bodies, the equability and constancy of theirmotions argue them ordained by wisdom. Ray.
equableness: Quality or state of being equable.
equably: In an equable manner.
equal: Intended for voices of one kind only, either all male or allfemale; -- opposed to mixed. [R.]
equalitarian: One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler.
equality: Exact agreement between two expressions or magnitudes withrespect to quantity; -- denoted by the symbol =; thus, a = xsignifies that a contains the same number and kind of units ofmeasure that x does. Confessional equality. See under Confessional.
equalization: The act of equalizing, or state of being equalized.Their equalization with the rest of their fellow subjects. Burke.
equalizer: One who, or that which, equalizes anything.
equally: In an equal manner or degree in equal shares or proportion;with equal and impartial justice; without difference; alike; evenly;justly; as, equally taxed, furnished, etc.
equalness: Equality; evenness. Shak.
equangular: Having equal angles; equiangular. [R.] Johnson.
equanimity: Evenness of mind; that calm temper or firmness of mind which isnot easily elated or depressed; patience; calmness; composure; as, tobear misfortunes with equanimity.
equanimous: Of an even, composed frame of mind; of a steady temper; noteasily elated or depressed. Bp. Gauden.
equant: A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center ofann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called alsoeccentric equator.
equate: To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such anallowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard ofcomparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments;to equate lines of railroad for grades or curves; equated distances.Palgrave gives both scrolle and scrowe and equates both to F[rench]rolle. Skeat (Etymol. Dict. ).Equating for grades (Railroad Engin.), adding to the measureddistance one mile for each twenty feet of ascent.-- Equating for curves, adding half a mile for each 360 degrees ofcurvature.
equation: An expression of the condition of equality between twoalgebraic quantities or sets of quantities, the sign = being placedbetween them; as, a binomial equation; a quadratic equation; analgebraic equation; a transcendental equation; an exponentialequation; a logarithmic equation; a differential equation, etc.
equator: The imaginary great circle on the earth's surface, everywhereequally distant from the two poles, and dividing the earth's surfaceinto two hemispheres.
equatorial: Of or pertaining to the equator; as, equatorial climates; also,pertaining to an equatorial instrument.
equatorially: So as to have motion or direction parallel to the equator.
equery: Same as Equerry.
equestrian: One who rides on horseback; a horseman; a rider.
equestrianism: The art of riding on horseback; performance on horseback;horsemanship; as, feats equestrianism.
equestrienne: A woman skilled in equestrianism; a horsewoman.
equi-: A prefix, meaning equally; as, equidistant; equiangular.
equiangled: Equiangular. [Obs.] Boyle.
equiangular: Having equal angles; as, an equiangular figure; a square isequiangular. Equiangular spiral. (Math.) See under Spiral, n.-- Mutually equiangular, applied to two figures, when every angle ofthe one has its equal among the angles of the other.
equibalance: Equal weight; equiponderance.
equicrescent: Increasing by equal increments; as, an equicrescent variable.
equicrural: Having equal legs or sides; isosceles. [R.] "Equicruraltriangles." Sir T. Browne.
equicrure: Equicrural. [Obs.]
equidifferent: Having equal differences; as, the terms of arithmeticalprogression are equidifferent.
equidistance: Equal distance.
equidistant: Being at an equal distance from the same point or thing.-- E`qui*dis"tant*ly, adv. Sir T. Browne.
equidiurnal: Pertaining to the time of equal day and night; -- applied tothe equinoctial line. Whewell.
equiform: Having the same form; uniform.-- E`qui*for"mi*ty, n. Sir T. Browne.
equilateral: Having all the sides equal; as, an equilateral triangle; anequilateral polygon. Equilateral hyperbola (Geom.), one whose axesare equal.-- Equilateral shell (Zoöl.), one in which a transverse line drawnthrough the apex of the umbo bisects the valve, or divides it intotwo equal and symmetrical parts.-- Mutually equilateral, applied to two figures, when every side ofthe one has its equal among the sides of the other.
equilibrate: To balance two scales, sides, or ends; to keep even with equalweight on each side; to keep in equipoise. H. Spenser.
equilibration: The process by which animal and vegetable organisms preserve aphysiological balance. H. Spenser.
equilibrious: Evenly poised; balanced. Dr. H. More.-- E`qui*lib"ri*ous*ly, adv.
equilibrist: One who balances himself in unnatural positions and hazardousmovements; a balancer.When the equilibrist balances a rod upon his finger. Stewart.
equilibrity: The state of being balanced; equality of weight. [R.] J.Gregory.
equimomental: Having equal moments of inertia.
equimultiple: Multiplied by the same number or quantity.
equinal: See Equine. "An equinal shape." Heywood.
equine: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse.The shoulders, body, things, and mane are equine; the head completelybovine. Sir J. Barrow.
equinia: Glanders.
equinoctial: The equinoctial line.
equinoctially: Towards the equinox.
equinumerant: Equal as to number. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.
equipaged: Furnished with equipage.Well dressed, well bred. Well equipaged, is ticket good enough.Cowper.
equiparable: Comparable. [Obs. or R.]
equiparate: To compare. [R.]
equipedal: Equal-footed; having the pairs of feet equal.
equipendency: The act or condition of hanging in equipoise; not inclined ordetermined either way. South.
equipensate: To weigh equally; to esteem alike. [Obs.]
equipoise: Sameness of signification of two or more propositions whichdiffer in language.
equipollent: Having equivalent signification and reach; expressing the samething, but differently.
equipollently: With equal power. Barrow.
equiponderant: Being of the same weight.A column of air . . . equiponderant to a column of quicksilver.Locke.
equiponderate: To be equal in weight; to weigh as much as another thing. Bp.Wilkins.
equiponderous: Having equal weight. Bailey.
equipondious: Of equal weight on both sides; balanced. [Obs.] Glanvill.
equipotential: Having the same potential. Equipotential surface, a surface forwhich the potential is for all points of the surface constant. Levelsurfaces on the earth are equipotential.
equiradical: Equally radical. [R.] Coleridge.
equirotal: Having wheels of the same size or diameter; having equalrotation. [R.]
equisetaceous: Belonging to the Equisetaceæ, or Horsetail family.
equisetiform: Having the form of the equisetum.
equisetum: A genus of vascular, cryptogamic, herbaceous plants; -- alsocalled horsetails.
equisonance: An equal sounding; the consonance of the unison and itsoctaves.
equisonant: Of the same or like sound.
equitable: That can be sustained or made available or effective in a courtof equity, or upon principles of equity jurisprudence; as, anequitable estate; equitable assets, assignment, mortgage, etc.Abbott.
equitableness: The quality of being equitable, just, or impartial; as, theequitableness of a judge, a decision, or distribution of property.
equitably: In an equitable manner; justly; as, the laws should beequitably administered.
equitancy: Horsemanship.
equitant: Overlapping each other; -- said of leaves whose bases arefolded so as to overlap and bestride the leaves within or above them,as in the iris.
equitation: A riding, or the act of riding, on horseback; horsemanship.The pretender to equitation mounted. W. Irving.
equitemporaneous: Contemporaneous. [Obs.] Boyle.
equites: An order of knights holding a middle place between the senateand the commonalty; members of the Roman equestrian order.
equity: An equitable claim; an equity of redemption; as, an equity to asettlement, or wife's equity, etc.I consider the wife's equity to be too well settled to be shaken.Kent.
equivalence: To be equivalent or equal to; to counterbalance. [R.] Sir T.Browne.
equivalency: Same as Equivalence.
equivalent: Equal in measure but not admitting of superposition; -- appliedto magnitudes; as, a square may be equivalent to a triangle.
equivalently: In an equal manner.
equivalue: To put an equal value upon; to put (something) on a par withanother thing. W. Taylor.
equivalvular: Same as Equivalve or Equivalved.
equivocacy: Equivocalness.
equivocal: A word or expression capable of different meanings; anambiguous term; an equivoque.In languages of great ductility, equivocals like that just referredto are rarely found. Fitzed. Hall.
equivocally: In an equivocal manner.
equivocalness: The state of being equivocal.
equivocate: To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to expressone's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intentto deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead; as,to equivocate is the work of duplicity.All that Garnet had to say for him was that he supposed he meant toequivocate. Bp. Stillingfleet.
equivocation: The use of expressions susceptible of a double signification,with a purpose to mislead.There being no room for equivocations, there is no need ofdistinctions. Locke.
equivocator: One who equivocates.Here's an equivocator that could swear in both the scales againsteither scale, yet could not equivocate to heaven. Shak.
equivocatory: Indicating, or characterized by, equivocation.
equivorous: Feeding on horseflesh; as, equivorous Tartars.
equus: A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc.
eradiate: To shoot forth, as rays of light; to beam; to radiate. Dr. H.More.
eradiation: Emission of radiance.
eradicable: Capable of being eradicated.
eradicative: Tending or serving to eradicate; curing or destroyingthoroughly, as a disease or any evil.
erasable: Capable of being erased.
erased: Represented with jagged and uneven edges, as is torn off; --used esp. of the head or limb of a beast. Cf. Couped.
erasement: The act of erasing; a rubbing out; expunction; obliteration.Johnson.
eraser: One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or apiece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc.
erasion: The act of erasing; a rubbing out; obliteration.
erastian: One of the followers of Thomas Erastus, a German physician andtheologian of the 16th century. He held that the punishment of alloffenses should be referred to the civil power, and that holycommunion was open to all. In the present day, an Erastian is one whowould see the church placed entirely under the control of the State.Shipley.
erastianism: The principles of the Erastains.
erasure: The act of erasing; a scratching out; obliteration.
erative: Pertaining to the Muse Erato who presided over amatory poetry.Stormonth.
erato: The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry.
erbium: A rare metallic element associated with several other rareelements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden. Symbol Er.Atomic weight 165.9. Its salts are rose-colored and givecharacteristic spectra. Its sesquioxide is called erbia.
ercedeken: An archdeacon. [Obs.]
erd: The earth. [Prov. Eng.] Wright. Erd shrew (Zoöl.), the commonEuropean shrew (Sorex vulgaris); the shrewmouse.
ere: To plow. [Obs.] See Ear, v. t. Chaucer.
erebus: A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space throughwhich the souls passed to Hades. See Milton's "Paradise Lost," BookII., line 883.
erect: Standing upright, with reference to the earth's surface, or tothe surface to which it is attached.
erectable: Capable of being erected; as, an erectable feather. Col. G.Montagu.
erecter: An erector; one who raises or builds.
erectile: Capable of being erected; susceptible of being erected ofdilated. Erectile tissue (Anat.), a tissue which is capable of beinggreatly dilated and made rigid by the distension of the numerousblood vessels which it contains.
erectility: The quality or state of being erectile.
erection: The state of a part which, from having been soft, has becomehard and swollen by the accumulation of blood in the erectile tissue.
erective: Making erect or upright; raising; tending to erect.
erectly: In an erect manner or posture.
erectness: Uprightness of posture or form.
erecto-patent: Having a position intermediate between erect and patent, orspreading.
erector: A muscle which raises any part.
erelong: Before the ere long.A man, . . . following the stag, erelong slew him. Spenser.The world, erelong, a world of tears must weep. Milton.
eremacausis: A gradual oxidation from exposure to air and moisture, as inthe decay of old trees or of dead animals.
eremitage: See Hermitage.
eremite: A hermit.Thou art my heaven, and I thy eremite. Keats.
eremitish: Eremitic. Bp. Hall.
eremitism: The state of a hermit; a living in seclusion from social life.
ereptation: A creeping forth. [Obs.]
ereption: A snatching away. [Obs.] Cockeram.
erethism: A morbid degree of excitement or irritation in an organ.Hoblyn.
erethistic: Relating to erethism.
erf: A garden plot, usually about half an acre. [Cape Colony]
erg: The unit of work or energy in the C. G. S. system, being theamount of work done by a dyne working through a distance of onecentimeter; the amount of energy expended in moving a body onecentimeter against a force of one dyne. One foot pound is equal to13,560,000 ergs.
ergal: Potential energy; negative value of the force function.
ergat: To deduce logically, as conclusions. [Obs.] Hewyt.
ergmeter: An instrument for measuring energy in ergs.
ergo: Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way. Shak.
ergograph: An instrument for measuring and recording the work done by asingle muscle or set of muscles, the rate of fatigue, etc. --Er`go*graph"ic (#), a.
ergometer: A device for measuring, or an instrument for indicating, energyexpended or work done; a dynamometer. -- Er`go*met"ric (#), a.
ergot: A stub, like soft horn, about the size of a chestnut, situatedbehind and below the pastern joint.
ergotic: Pertaining to, or derived from, ergot; as, ergotic acid.
ergotin: An extract made from ergot.
ergotine: A powerful astringent alkaloid extracted from ergot as a brown,amorphous, bitter substance. It is used to produce contraction of theuterus.
ergotism: A logical deduction. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ergotized: Affected with the ergot fungus; as, ergotized rye.
erica: A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of themproducing beautiful flowers.
ericaceous: Belonging to the Heath family, or resembling plants of thatfamily; consisting of heats.
ericinol: A colorless oil (quickly becoming brown), with a pleasant odor,obtained by the decomposition of ericolin.
ericius: The Vulgate rendering of the Hebrew word qipod, which in the"Authorized Version" is translated bittern, and in the RevisedVersion, porcupine.I will make it [Babylon] a possession for the ericius and pools ofwaters. Is. xiv. 23 (Douay version).
ericolin: A glucoside found in the bearberry (and others of theEricaceæ), and extracted as a bitter, yellow, amorphous mass.
eridanus: A long, winding constellation extending southward from Taurusand containing the bright star Achernar.
erigible: Capable of being erected. [Obs.]
erin: An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland.
erinaceous: Of the Hedgehog family; like, or characteristic of, a hedgehog.
eringo: The sea holly. See Eryngo.
erinite: A hydrous arseniate of copper, of an emerald-green color; -- socalled from Erin, or Ireland, where it occurs.
erinys: An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, consciencepersonified. [Written also Erinnys.]
eriometer: An instrument for measuring the diameters of minute particlesor fibers, from the size of the colored rings produced by thediffraction of the light in which the objects are viewed.
eristalis: A genus of dipterous insects whose young (called rat-tailedlarvæ) are remarkable for their long tapering tail, which spiraclesat the tip, and for their ability to live in very impure and saltwaters; -- also called drone fly.
erke: ASlothful. [Obs.] Rom. of R.
erlking: A personification, in German and Scandinavian mythology, of aspirit natural power supposed to work mischief and ruin, esp. tochildren.
erme: To grieve; to feel sad. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ermin: An Armenian. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ermine: A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M.erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat. It is found in thenorthern parts of Asia, Europe, and America. In summer it is brown,but in winter it becomes white, except the tip of the tail, which isalways black.
ermined: Clothed or adorned with the fur of the ermine. Pope.
ermit: A hermit. [Obs.]
ern: To stir with strong emotion; to grieve; to mourn.
ernest: See Earnest. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ernestful: Serious. [Obs.] Chaucer.
erode: To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh."The blood . . . erodes the vessels." Wiseman.The smaller charge is more apt to . . . erode the gun. Am. Cyc.
eroded: Having the edge worn away so as to be jagged or irregularlytoothed.
erodent: A medicine which eats away extraneous growths; a caustic.
erogate: To lay out, as money; to deal out; to expend. [Obs.]
erogation: The act of giving out or bestowing. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.
eros: Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as oneof the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son ofAphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid.
erose: Jagged or irregularly toothed, as if nibbled out or gnawed.-- E*rose"ly, adv.
erosive: That erodes or gradually eats away; tending to erode;corrosive. Humble.
erostrate: Without a beak.
eroteme: A mark indicating a question; a note of interrogation.
erotesis: A figure oMust I give way and room to your rash choler Shall I be frighted whena madman stares Shak.
erotic: An amorous composition or poem.
eroticism: Erotic quality.
erpetologist: Herpetologist.
erpetology: Herpetology.
errable: Liable to error; fallible.
errableness: Liability to error. Dr. H. More.
errabund: Erratic. "Errabund guesses." Southey.
errancy: A wandering; state of being in error.
errand: A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to betold or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbalmessage; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to doan errand. Also, one's purpose in going anywhere.I have a secret errand to thee, O king. Judg. iii. 19.I will not eat till I have told mine errand. Gen. xxiv. 33.mission.
errant: Journeying; itinerant; -- formerly applied to judges who wenton circuit and to bailiffs at large. Mozley & W.
errantia: A group of chætopod annelids, including those that are notconfined to tubes. See Chætopoda. [Written also Errantes.]
errata: See Erratum.
erratic: Any stone or material that has been borne away from itsoriginal site by natural agencies; esp., a large block or fragment ofrock; a bowlder.
erratical: Erratic.-- Er*rat"ic*al*ly, adv.-- Er*rat"ic*al*ness, n.
erration: A wandering; a roving about. [Obs.] Cockeram.
erratum: An error or mistake in writing or printing.A single erratum may knock out the brains of a whole passage. Cowper.
errhine: A medicine designed to be snuffed up the nose, to promotedischarges of mucus; a sternutatory. Coxe.-- a.
error: The difference between the approximate result and the trueresult; -- used particularly in the rule of double position.
errorful: Full of error; wrong. Foxe.
errorist: One who encourages and propagates error; one who holds toerror.
ers: The bitter vetch (Ervum Ervilia).
erse: A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which isspoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders,Gaelic.
ersh: See Arrish.
erstwhile: Till then or now; heretofore; formerly. [Archaic]
erubescent: Red, or reddish; blushing. Johnson.
erubescite: See Bornite.
eruca: An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva.
erucic: Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferousMediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fattyacid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc.
erucifrom: Having the form of a caterpillar; -- said of insect larvæ.
erudiate: To instruct; to educate; to teach. [Obs.]The skillful goddess there erudiates these In all she did. Fanshawe.
erudite: Characterized by extensive reading or knowledge; wellinstructed; learned. "A most erudite prince." Sir T. More. "Erudite .. . theology." I. Taylor.-- Er"u*dite`ly, adv.-- Er"u*dite`ness, n.
erudition: The act of instructing; the result of thorough instruction; thestate of being erudite or learned; the acquisitions gained byextensive reading or study; particularly, learning in literature orcriticism, as distinct from the sciences; scholarship.The management of a young lady's person is not be overlooked, but theerudition of her mind is much more to be regarded. Steele.The gay young gentleman whose erudition sat so easily upon him.Macaulay.
erugate: Freed from wrinkles; smooth.
eruginous: Partaking of the substance or nature of copper, or of the rustcopper; resembling the trust of copper or verdigris; æruginous.
erumpent: Breaking out; -- said of certain fungi which burst through thetexture of leaves.
erupt: To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava. Huxley.
eruption: The breaking out of pimples, or an efflorescence, as inmeasles, scarlatina, etc.
eruptional: Eruptive. [R.] R. A. Proctor.
eruptive: Attended with eruption or efflorescence, or producing it; as,an eruptive fever.
eryngium: A genus of umbelliferous plants somewhat like thistles inappearance. Eryngium maritimum, or sea holly, has been highlyesteemed as an aphrodisiac, the roots being formerly candied.
eryngo: A plant of the genus Eryngium.
erysipelas: St. Anthony's fire; a febrile disease accompanied with adiffused inflammation of the skin, which, starting usually from asingle point, spreads gradually over its surface. It is usuallyregarded as contagious, and often occurs epidemically.
erysipelatoid: Resembling erysipelas.
erysipelatous: Resembling erysipelas, or partaking of its nature.
erysipelous: Erysipelatous.
erythema: A disease of the skin, in which a diffused inflammation formsrose-colored patches of variable size.
erythematic: Characterized by, or causing, a morbid redness of the skin;relating to erythema.
erythematous: Relating to, or causing, erythema.
erythric: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, erythrin.
erythrina: A genus of leguminous plants growing in the tropics; coraltree; -- so called from its red flowers.
erythrism: A condition of excessive redness. See Erythrochroism.
erythrite: A colorless crystalline substance, C4H6.(OH)4, of a sweet,cooling taste, extracted from certain lichens, and obtained by thedecomposition of erythrin; -- called also erythrol, erythroglucin,erythromannite, pseudorcin, cobalt bloom, and under the name phyciteobtained from the alga Protococcus vulgaris. It is a tetrabasicalcohol, corresponding to glycol and glycerin.
erythrochroic: Having, or subject to, erythrochroism.
erythrochroism: An unusual redness, esp. in the plumage of birds, or hair ofmammals, independently of age, sex, or season.
erythrodextrin: A dextrin which gives a red color with iodine. See Dextrin.
erythrogranulose: A term applied by Brücke to a substance present in small amountin starch granules, colored red by iodine.
erythroid: Of a red color; reddish; as, the erythroid tunic (the cremastermuscle).
erythroleic: Having a red color and oily appearance; -- applied to a purplesemifluid substance said to be obtained from archil.
erythrolein: A red substance obtained from litmus.
erythrolitmin: Erythrolein.
erythronium: A name originally given (from its red acid) to the metalvanadium. [R.]
erythrophleine: A white crystalline alkaloid, extracted from sassy bark(Erythrophleum Guineense).
erythroxylon: A genus of shrubs or small trees of the Flax family, growing intropical countries. E. Coca is the source of cocaine. See Coca.
erythrozyme: A ferment extracted from madder root, possessing the power ofinducing alcoholic fermentation in solutions of sugar.
escalade: A furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in whichladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.Sin enters, not by escalade, but by cunning or treachery.Buckminster.
escalator: A stairway or incline arranged like an endless belt so that thesteps or treads ascend or descend continuously, and one stepping uponit is carried up or down; -- a trade term.
escallop: See Escalop.
escalloped: See Escaloped.
escalop: A bivalve shell of the genus Pecten. See Scallop.
escaloped: Covered with a pattern resembling a series of escalop shells,each of which issues from between two others. Its appearance is thatof a surface covered with scales. Escaloped oysters (Cookery). Seeunder Scalloped.
escambio: A license formerly required for the making over a bill ofexchange to another over sea. Cowell.
escapable: Avoidable.
escape: The unlawful permission, by a jailer or other custodian, of aprisoner's departure from custody.
escaper: One who escapes.
escarbuncle: See Carbuncle, 3.
escargatoire: A nursery of snails. [Obs.] Addison.
escarp: The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, andopposed to counterscarp.
escarpment: A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge;ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to preventhostile approach. See Scarp.
eschalot: See Shallot.
eschar: A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthypart of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application ofcaustics.
eschara: A genus of Bryozoa which produce delicate corals, oftenincrusting like lichens, but sometimes branched.
escharine: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Eschara, or family Escharidæ.
escharotic: Serving or tending to form an eschar;; producing a scar;caustic.
eschatological: Pertaining to the last or final things.
eschatology: The doctrine of the last or final things, as death, judgment,and the events therewith connected.
eschaunge: Exchange. [Obs.]
escheat: To revert, or become forfeited, to the lord, the crown, or theState, as lands by the failure of persons entitled to hold the same,or by forfeiture.
escheatable: Liable to escheat.
escheatage: The right of succeeding to an escheat. Sherwood.
escheator: An officer whose duty it is to observe what escheats have takenplace, and to take charge of them. Burrill.
eschevin: The alderman or chief officer of an ancient guild. [Obs.]
eschewer: One who eschews.
eschewment: The act of eschewing. [R.]
eschscholtzia: A genus of papaveraceous plants, found in California and uponthe west coast of North America, some species of which producebeautiful yellow, orange, rose-colored, or white flowers; theCalifornia poppy.
eschynite: A rare mineral, containing chiefly niobium, titanium, thorium,and cerium. It was so called by Berzelius on account of the inabilityof chemical science, at the time of its discovery, to separate someof its constituents.
escocheon: Escutcheon. [Obs.]
escorial: See Escurial.
escort: To attend with a view to guard and protect; to accompany assafeguard; to give honorable or ceremonious attendance to; -- usedesp. with reference to journeys or excursions on land; as, to escorta public functionary, or a lady; to escort a baggage wagon.
escot: See Scot, a tax. [Obs.]
escouade: See Squad,
escout: See Scout. [Obs.] Hayward.
escribed: Drawn outside of; -- used to designate a circle that touchesone of the sides of a given triangle, and also the other two sidesproduced.
escript: A writing. [Obs.]
escritoire: A piece of furniture used as a writing table, commonly withdrawers, pigeonholes, and the like; a secretary or writing desk.
escritorial: Of or pertaining to an escritoire.
escrod: See Scrod, a young cod.
escrow: A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a thirdperson, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition isperformed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee.Blackstone.
escuage: Service of the shield, a species of knight service by which atenant was bound to follow his lord to war, at his own charge. It wasafterward exchanged for a pecuniary satisfaction. Called alsoscutage. Blackstone.
esculapian: Æsculapian.
esculapius: Same as Æsculapius.
esculent: Suitable to be used by man for food; eatable; edible; as,esculent plants; esculent fish.Esculent grain for food. Sir W. Jones.Esculent swallow (Zoöl.), the swallow which makes the edible bird's-nest. See Edible bird's-nest, under Edible.
esculic: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the horse-chestnut; as,esculic acid.
esculin: A glucoside obtained from the Æsculus hippocastanum, or horse-chestnut, and characterized by its fine blue fluorescent solutions.[Written also æsculin.]
escurial: A palace and mausoleum of the kinds of Spain, being a vast andwonderful structure about twenty-five miles northwest of Madrid.
escutcheon: The surface, usually a shield, upon which bearings aremarshaled and displayed. The surface of the escutcheon is called thefield, the upper part is called the chief, and the lower part thebase (see Chiff, and Field.). That side of the escutcheon which is onthe right hand of the knight who bears the shield on his arm iscalled dexter, and the other side sinister.
escutcheoned: Having an escutcheon; furnished with a coat of arms or ensign.Young.
ese: Ease; pleasure. [Obs.] Chaucer.
esemplastic: Shaped into one; tending to, or formative into, unity. [R.]Coleridge.
eserine: An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean, and the seed ofPhysostigma venenosum; physostigmine. It is used in ophthalmicsurgery for its effect in contracting the pupil.
esexual: Sexless; asexual.
esguard: Guard. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
eskimo: One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland.In many respects the Eskimos resemble the Mongolian race. [Writtenalso Esquimau.] Eskimo dog (Zoöl.), one of breed of large andpowerful dogs used by the Eskimos to draw sledges. It closelyresembles the gray wolf, with which it is often crossed.
esloin: To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign. [Obs.]From worldly cares he did himself esloin. Spenser.
esnecy: A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose firstafter an inheritance is divide. Mozley & W.
esodic: Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to thespinal cord; -- said of certain nerves. Opposed to exodic.
esophagal: Esophageal.
esophageal: Pertaining to the esophagus. [Written also .]
esophagean: Esophageal.
esophagotomy: The operation of making an incision into the esophagus, for thepurpose of removing any foreign substance that obstructs the passage.[Written also oesophagotomy.]
esophagus: That part of the alimentary canal between the pharynx and thestomach; the gullet. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, underDigestive. [Written also .]
esoteric: Designed for, and understood by, the specially initiated alone;not communicated, or not intelligible, to the general body offollowers; private; interior; acroamatic; -- said of the private andmore recondite instructions and doctrines of philosophers. Opposed toexoteric.Enough if every age produce two or three critics of this esotericclass, with here and there a reader to understand them. De Quincey.
esoterical: Esoteric.
esoterically: In an esoteric manner.
esotericism: Esoteric doctrine or principles.
esoterics: Mysterious or hidden doctrines; secret science.
esotery: Mystery; esoterics; -- opposed to exotery. A. Tucker.
esox: A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel.
espace: Space. [Obs.] Chaucer.
espadon: A long, heavy, two-handed and two-edged sword, formerly used bySpanish foot soldiers and by executioners. Wilhelm.
espalier: A railing or trellis upon which fruit trees or shrubs aretrained, as upon a wall; a tree or row of trees so trained.And figs from standard and espalier join. Pope.
esparcet: The common sainfoin (Onobrychis sativa), an Old Worldleguminous forage plant.
esparto: A species of Spanish grass (Macrochloa tenacissima), of whichcordage, shoes, baskets, etc., are made. It is also used for makingpaper.
espauliere: A defense for the shoulder, composed of flexible overlappingplates of metal, used in the 15th century; -- the origin of themodern epaulette. Fairholt.
especial: Distinguished among others of the same class or kind; special;concerning a species or a single object; principal; particular; as,in an especial manner or degree.
especially: In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in anuncommon degree.
especialness: The state of being especial.
esperance: Hope. [Obs.] Shak.
esperanto: An artificial language, intended to be universal, devised byDr. Zamenhof, a Russian, who adopted the pseudonym "Dr. Esperanto" inpublishing his first pamphlet regarding it in 1887. The vocabulary isvery largely based upon words common to the chief European languages,and sounds peculiar to any one language are eliminated. The spellingis phonetic, and the accent (stress) is always on the penult. --Es`pe*ran"tist (#), n.
espiaille: Espial. [Obs.]
espier: One who espies. Harmar.
espinel: A kind of ruby. See Spinel.
espionage: The practice or employment of spies; the practice of watchingthe words and conduct of others, to make discoveries, as spies orsecret emissaries; secret watching.
esplanade: A grass plat; a lawn. Simmonds.
esplees: The full profits or products which ground or land yields, asthe hay of the meadows, the feed of the pasture, the grain of arablefields, the rents, services, and the like. Cowell.
espousage: Espousal. [Obs.] Latimer.
espousement: The act of espousing, or the state of being espoused.
espouser: One who espouses; one who embraces the cause of another ormakes it his own.
espressivo: With expression.
espringal: An engine of war used for throwing viretons, large stones, andother missiles; a springal.
esprit: Spirit. Esprit de corps (, a French phrase much used by Englishwriters to denote the common spirit pervading the members of a bodyor association of persons. It implies sympathy, enthusiasm, devotion,and jealous regard for the honor of the body as a whole.
espy: To look or search narrowly; to look about; to watch; to takenotice; to spy.Stand by the way, and espy. Jer. xlviii. 19.
esquimau: Same as Eskimo.It is . . . an error to suppose that where an Esquimau can live, acivilized man can live also. McClintock.
esquire: Originally, a shield-bearer or armor-bearer, an attendant on aknight; in modern times, a title of dignity next in degree belowknight and above gentleman; also, a title of office and courtesy; --often shortened to squire.
esquisse: The first sketch of a picture or model of a statue.
essay: A composition treating of any particular subject; -- usuallyshorter and less methodical than a formal, finished treatise; as, anessay on the life and writings of Homer; an essay on fossils, or oncommerce.
essayer: One who essays. Addison.
essayist: A writer of an essay, or of essays. B. Jonson.
essence: To perfume; to scent. "Essenced fops." Addison.
essene: One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior,remarkable for their strictness and abstinence.
essenism: The doctrine or the practices of the Essenes. De Quincey.
essential: Necessary; indispensable; -- said of those tones whichconstitute a chord, in distinction from ornamental or passing tones.
essentiality: The quality of being essential; the essential part. Jer.Taylor.
essentially: In an essential manner or degree; in an indispensable degree;really; as, essentially different.
essentialness: Essentiality. Ld. Digby.
essentiate: To form or constitute the essence or being of. [Obs.] Boyle.
essoin: To excuse for nonappearance in court. "I 'll not essoin thee."Quarles.
essoiner: An attorney who sufficiently excuses the absence of another.
essonite: Cinnamon stone, a variety of garnet. See Garnet.
essorant: Standing, but with the wings spread, as if about to fly; --said of a bird borne as a charge on an escutcheon.
est: East. [Obs.] Chaucer.
established suit: A plain suit in which a player (or side) could, except fortrumping, take tricks with all his remaining cards.
establisher: One who establishes.
establishmentarian: One who regards the Church primarily as an establishment formedby the State, and overlooks its intrinsic spiritual character.Shipley.
estacade: A dike of piles in the sea, a river, etc., to check theapproach of an enemy.
estaminet: A café, or room in a café, in which smoking is allowed.
estancia: A grazing; a country house. [Spanish America]
estate: The great classes or orders of a community or state (as theclergy, the nobility, and the commonalty of England) or theirrepresentatives who administer the government; as, the estates of therealm (England), which are (1) the lords spiritual, (2) the lordstemporal, (3) the commons.
esteem: To form an estimate; to have regard to the value; to consider.[Obs.]We ourselves esteem not of that obedience, or love, or gift, which isof force. Milton.
esteemable: Worthy of esteem; estimable. [R.] "Esteemable qualities." Pope.
esteemer: One who esteems; one who sets a high value on any thing.The proudest esteemer of his own parts. Locke.
ester: An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organicradical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic orinorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fattyacids, oleic, etc.
esthesiometer: Same as Æsthesiometer.
estiferous: Producing heat. [R.] Smart.
estimable: A thing worthy of regard. [R.]One of the peculiar estimables of her country. Sir T. Browne.
estimableness: The quality of deserving esteem or regard.
estimably: In an estimable manner.
estimate: A valuing or rating by the mind, without actually measuring,weighing, or the like; rough or approximate calculation; as, anestimate of the cost of a building, or of the quantity of water in apond.Weigh success in a moral balance, and our whole estimate is changed.J. C. Shairp.
estimator: One who estimates or values; a valuer. Jer. Taylor.
estoile: A six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straightlike those of a mullet. [Written also étoile.] Estoile of eightpoints, a star which has four straight and four wavy rays.-- Estoile of four points. Same as Cross estoilé, under Cross.
estop: To impede or bar by estoppel.A party will be estopped by his admissions, where his intent is toinfluence another, or derive an advantage to himself. Abbott.
estovers: Necessaries or supples; an allowance to a person out of anestate or other thing for support; as of wood to a tenant for life,etc., of sustenance to a man confined for felony of his estate, oralimony to a woman divorced out of her husband's estate. Blackstone.Common of estovers. See under Common, n.
estrade: A portion of the floor of a room raised above the generallevel, as a place for a bed or a throne; a platform; a dais.He [the teacher] himself should have his desk on a mounted estrade orplatform. J. G. Fitch.
estrangedness: State of being estranged; estrangement. Prynne.
estrangement: The act of estranging, or the state of being estranged;alienation.An estrangement from God. J. C. Shairp.A long estrangement from better things. South.
estranger: One who estranges.
estrangle: To strangle. [Obs.]
estrapade: The action of a horse, when, to get rid of his rider, he rears,plunges, and kicks furiously.
estray: To stray. [Obs.] Daniel.
estre: The inward part of a building; the interior. [Obs.] Chaucer.
estreat: A true copy, duplicate, or extract of an original writing orrecord, esp. of amercements or penalties set down in the rolls ofcourt to be levied by the bailiff, or other officer. Cowell. Estreatof a recognizance, the extracting or taking out a forfeitedrecognizance from among the other records of the court, for thepurpose of a prosecution in another court, or it may be in the samecourt. Burrill.
estrepe: To strip or lay bare, as land of wood, houses, etc.; to commitwaste.
estrepement: A destructive kind of waste, committed by a tenant for life, inlands, woods, or houses. Cowell.
estrich: The down of the ostrich. Brande & C.
estuance: Heat. [Obs.]
estuarine: Pertaining to an estuary; estuary.
estuary: Belonging to, or formed in, an estuary; as, estuary strata.Lyell.
estuate: To boil up; to swell and rage; to be agitated. Bacon.
estuation: The act of estuating; commotion, as of a fluid; agitation.The estuations of joys and fears. W. Montagu.
estufa: An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians. L. H.Morgan.
esture: Commotion. [Obs.] Chapman.
esurient: Inclined to eat; hungry; voracious. [R.] Bailey. "Poor, butesurient." Carlyle.
esurine: Causing hunger; eating; corroding. [Obs.] Wiseman.
etaac: The blue buck.
etacism: The pronunciation of the Greek ê (eta) like the Italian e long,that is like a in the English word ate. See Itacism.
etacist: One who favors etacism.
etagere: A piece of furniture having a number of uninclosed shelves orstages, one above another, for receiving articles of elegance or use.Fairholt.
etamine: A light textile fabric, like a fine bunting.
etape: A public storehouse.
etat major: The staff of an army, including all officers above the rank ofcolonel, also, all adjutants, inspectors, quartermasters,commissaries, engineers, ordnance officers, paymasters, physicians,signal officers, judge advocates; also, the noncommissionedassistants of the above officers.
etch: A variant of Eddish. [Obs.] Mortimer.
etcher: One who etches.
eteostic: A kind of chronogram. [R.] B. Jonson.
eterminable: Interminable. [Obs.] Skelton.
eternalist: One who holds the existence of matter to be from eternity. T.Burnet.
eternalize: To make eternal. Shelton.
eternally: In an eternal manner.That which is morally good or evil at any time or in any case, mustbe also eternally and unchangeably so. South.Where western gales eternally reside. Addison.
eterne: See Etern.
eternify: To make eternal. [Obs.]Fame . . . eternifies the name. Mir. for Mag.
eternization: The act of eternizing; the act of rendering immortal or famous.
etesian: Periodical; annual; -- applied to winds which annually blowfrom the north over the Mediterranean, esp. the eastern part, for anirregular period during July and August.
ethal: A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol.See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic.
ethane: A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinaryilluminating gas. It is the second member of the paraffin series, andits most important derivatives are common alcohol, aldehyde, ether,and acetic acid. Called also dimethyl.
ethe: Easy. [Obs.] Spenser.
ethel: Noble. [Obs.]
ethene: Ethylene; olefiant gas.
ethenic: Pertaining to, derived from. or resembling, ethene or ethylene;as, ethenic ether.
etheostomoid: Pertaining to, or like, the genus Etheostoma.-- n.
ether: A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed topervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and tobe the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often calledluminiferous ether.
ethereal: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, ether; as, etherealsalts. Ethereal oil. (Chem.) See Essential oil, under Essential.-- Ethereal oil of wine (Chem.), a heavy, yellow, oily liquidconsisting essentially of etherin, etherol, and ethyl sulphate. It isthe oily residuum left after etherification. Called also heavy oil ofwine (distinguished from oil of wine, or oenanthic ether).-- Ethereal salt (Chem.), a salt of some organic radical as a base;an ester.
etherealism: Ethereality.
ethereality: The state of being ethereal; etherealness.Something of that ethereality of thought and manner which belonged toWordsworth's earlier lyrics. J. C. Shairp.
etherealization: An ethereal or spiritlike state. J. H. Stirling.
ethereally: In an ethereal manner.
etherealness: Ethereality.
ethereous: Pertaining to, or resembling, either. Ethereous oil. SeeEthereal oil, under Ethereal.
etherification: The act or process of making ether; specifically, the processby which a large quantity of alcohol is transformed into ether by theagency of a small amount of sulphuric, or ethyl sulphuric, acid.
etheriform: Having the form of ether.
etherin: A white, crystalline hydrocarbon, regarded as a polymericvariety of ethylene, obtained in heavy oil of wine, the residue leftafter making ether; -- formerly called also concrete oil of wine.
etherol: An oily hydrocarbon regarded as a polymeric variety ofethylene, produced with etherin.
ethically: According to, in harmony with, moral principles or character.
ethicist: One who is versed in ethics, or has written on ethics.
ethics: The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn fromthis science; a particular system of principles and rules concertingduty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a singleclass of human actions; as, political or social ethics; medicalethics.The completeness and consistency of its morality is the peculiarpraise of the ethics which the Bible has taught. I. Taylor.
ethide: Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide.
ethidene: Ethylidene. [Obs.]
ethine: Acetylene.
ethionic: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid so called.Ethionic acid (Chem.), a liquid derivative of ethylsulphuric andsulphuric (thionic) acids, obtained by the action of sulphur trioxideon absolute alcohol.
ethiopic: The language of ancient Ethiopia; the language of the ancientAbyssinian empire (in Ethiopia), now used only in the Abyssinianchurch. It is of Semitic origin, and is also called Geez.
ethiops: A black substance; -- formerly applied to various preparationsof a black or very dark color. [Written also Æthiops.] [Obs.] Ethiopsmartial (Old Chem.), black oxide of iron.-- Ethiops mineral (Old Chem.), black sulphide of mercury, obtainedby triturating mercury with sulphur.-- Ethiops per se (Old Chem.), mercury in finely divided state,having the appearance of a dark powder, obtained by shaking it up orby exposure to the air.
ethmoid: The ethmoid bone.
ethmotrubinal: See Turbinal.-- n.
ethmovomerine: Pertaining to the region of the vomer and the base of theethmoid in the skull. Ethmovomerine plate (Anat.), a cartilaginousplate beneath the front of the fetal brain which the ethmoid regionof the skull is developed.
ethnarch: The governor of a province or people. Lew Wallace.
ethnarchy: The dominion of an ethnarch; principality and rule. Wright.
ethnic: A heathen; a pagan. [Obs.]No better reported than impure ethnic and lay dogs. Milton.
ethnically: In an ethnical manner.
ethnicism: Heathenism; paganism; idolatry. [Obs.] "Taint of ethnicism." B.Jonson.
ethnographer: One who investigates ethnography.
ethnographically: In an ethnographical manner.
ethnography: That branch of knowledge which has for its subject thecharacteristics of the human family, developing the details withwhich ethnology as a comparative science deals; descriptiveethnology. See Ethnology.
ethnologically: In an ethnological manner; by ethnological classification; as,one belonging ethnologically to an African race.
ethnologist: One versed in ethnology; a student of ethnology.
ethnology: The science which treats of the division of mankind into races,their origin, distribution, and relations, and the peculiaritieswhich characterize them.
ethologist: One who studies or writes upon ethology.
ethopoetic: Expressing character. [Obs.] Urquhart.
ethos: The character, sentiment, or disposition of a community orpeople, considered as a natural endowment; the spirit which actuatesmanners and customs; also, the characteristic tone or genius of aninstitution or social organization.
ethule: Ethyl. [Obs.]
ethyl: A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series,forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol andether. Ethyl aldehyde. (Chem.) See Aldehyde.
ethylamine: A colorless, mobile, inflammable liquid, C2H5.NH2, veryvolatile and with an ammoniacal odor. It is a strong base, and is aderivative of ammonia. Called also ethyl carbamine, and amido ethane.
ethylate: A compound derived from ethyl alcohol by the replacement of thehydroxyl hydrogen, after the manner of a hydrate; an ethylalcoholate; as, potassium ethylate, C2H5.O.K.
ethylene: A colorless, gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H4, forming an importantingredient of illuminating gas, and also obtained by the action ofconcentrated sulphuric acid in alcohol. It is an unsaturated compoundand combines directly with chlorine and bromine to form oily liquids(Dutch liquid), -- hence called olefiant gas. Called also ethene,elayl, and formerly, bicarbureted hydrogen. Ethylene series (Chem.),the series if unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is the type,and represented by the general formula CnH2n.
ethylic: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, ethyl; as, ethylicalcohol.
ethylidene: An unsymmetrical, divalent, hydrocarbon radical, C2H4 metamericwith ethylene but written thus, CH3.CH to distinguish it from thesymmetrical ethylene, CH2.CH2. Its compounds are derived fromaldehyde. Formerly called also ethidene.
ethylin: Any one of the several complex ethers of ethyl and glycerin.
ethylsulphuric: Pertaining to, or containing, ethyl and sulphuric acid.Ethylsulphuric acid (Chem.), an acid sulphate of ethyl, H.C2H5.SO4,produced as a thick liquid by the action of sulphiric acid onalcohol. It appears to be the active catalytic agent in the processof etherification.
etiolate: To become pale through disease or absence of light.
etiolation: Paleness produced by absence of light, or by disease.Dunglison.
etiolin: A yellowish coloring matter found in plants grown in darkness,which is supposed to be an antecedent condition of chlorophyll.Encyc. Brit.
etiological: Pertaining to, or inquiring into, causes; ætiological.
etiology: The science of causes. Same as tiology.
etiquette: The forms required by good breeding, or prescribed byauthority, to be observed in social or official life; observance ofthe proprieties of rank and occasion; conventional decorum;ceremonial code of polite society.The pompous etiquette to the court of Louis the Fourteenth. Prescott.
etna: A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat isfurnished by a spirit lamp.There should certainly be an etna for getting a hot cup of coffee ina hurry. V. Baker.
etnean: Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily.
etoile: See Estoile.
etrurian: Of or relating to ancient Etruria, in Italy. "Etrurian Shades."Milton, -- n.
etruscan: Of or relating to Etruria.-- n.
etter pike: The stingfish, or lesser weever (Tranchinus vipera).
ettin: A giant. [Obs.] Beau & Fl.
ettle: To earn. [Obs.] See Addle, to earn. Boucher.
etude: A study; an exercise; a piece for practice of some specialpoint of technical execution.
etui: A case for one several small articles; esp., a box in whichscissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use arecarried.
etwee: See . Shenstone.
etym: See Etymon. H. F. Talbot.
etymic: Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word.
etymologer: An etymologist.
etymological: Pertaining to etymology, or the derivation of words.-- Et`y*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
etymologicon: an etymological dictionary or manual.
etymologist: One who investigates the derivation of words.
etymologize: To give the etymology of; to trace to the root or primitive, asa word. Camden
etymon: 1. An original form; primitive word; root.
etypical: Diverging from, or lacking conformity to, a type.
eu: A prefix used frequently in composition, signifying well, good,advantageous; -- the opposite of dys-.
eucairite: A metallic mineral, a selenide of copper and silver; -- socalled by Berzelius on account of its being found soon after thediscovery of the metal selenium.
eucalyn: An unfermentable sugar, obtained as an uncrystallizable sirupby the decomposition of melitose; also obtained from a Tasmanianeucalyptus, -- whence its name.
eucalyptol: A volatile, terpenelike oil extracted from the eucalyptus, andconsisting largely of cymene.
eucalyptus: A myrtaceous genus of trees, mostly Australian. Many of themgrow to an immense height, one or two species exceeding the heighteven of the California Sequoia.
eucharis: A genus of South American amaryllidaceous plants with large andbeautiful white blossoms.
eucharist: The sacrament of the Lord's Supper; the solemn act of ceremonyof commemorating the death of Christ, in the use of bread and wine,as the appointed emblems; the communion.-- See Sacrament.
euchite: One who resolves religion into prayer. [Obs.] Gauden.
euchloric: Relating to, or consisting of, euchlorine; as, euchloric .Davy.
euchlorine: A yellow or greenish yellow gas, first prepared by Davy,evolved from potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid. It is supposedto consist of chlorine tetroxide with some free chlorine.
euchologue: Euchology. [R.]
euchre: A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or fourpersons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Jokeris used) being the knave of the same suit as the trump, and calledright bower, the lowest card used being the seven, or frequently, intwo-handed euchre, the nine spot. See Bower.
euchroic: Having a fine color. Euchroic acid (Chem.), an organic, imideacid, obtained as a colorless crystalline substance, C12H4N2O8 byheating an ammonium salt of mellitic acid. By reduction it is changedto a dark blue substance (euchrone), -- hence its name.
euchroite: A mineral occurring in transparent emerald green crystals. Itis hydrous arseniate of copper.
euchrone: A substance obtained from euchroic acid. See Eychroic.
euchymy: A good state of he blood and other fluids of the body.
euclase: A brittle gem occurring in light green, transparent crystals,affording a brilliant clinodiagonal cleavage. It is a silicate ofalumina and glucina.
euclid: A Greek geometer of the 3d century
euclidian: Related to Euclid, or to the geometry of Euclid. Euclidianspace (Geom.), the kind of space to which the axioms and definitionsof Euclid, relative to straight lines and parallel lines, apply; --called also flat space, and homaloidal space.
eucopepoda: A group which includes the typical copepods and the lerneans.
eucrasy: Such a due mixture of qualities in bodies as constitutes healthor soundness. Quincy.
euctical: Expecting a wish; supplicatory. [R.]Sacrifices . . . distinguished into expiatory, euctical, andeucharistical. Bp. Law.
eudialyte: A mineral of a brownish red color and vitreous luster,consisting chiefly of the silicates of iron, zirconia, and lime.
eudiometer: An instrument for the volumetric measurement of gases; -- sonamed because frequently used to determine the purity of the air.
eudiometry: The art or process of determining he constituents of a gaseousmixture by means of the eudiometer, or for ascertaining the purity ofthe air or the amount of oxygen in it.
eudipleura: The fundamental forms of organic life, that are composed of twoequal and symmetrical halves. Syd. Soc. Lex.
eudoxian: A follower of Eudoxius, patriarch of Antioch and Constantinoplein the 4th century, and a celebrated defender of the doctrines ofArius.
euganoidei: A group which includes the bony ganoids, as the gar pikes.
euge: Applause. [Obs.] Hammond.
eugenesis: The quality or condition of having strong reproductive powers;generation with full fertility between different species or races,specif. between hybrids of the first generation.
eugenia: A genus of mytraceous plants, mostly of tropical countries, andincluding several aromatic trees and shrubs, among which are thetrees which produce allspice and cloves of commerce.
eugenic: Pertaining to, or derived from, cloves; as, eugenic acid.
eugenics: The science of improving stock, whether human or animal. F.Galton.
eugenin: A colorless, crystalline substance extracted from oil ofcloves; -- called also clove camphor.
eugenol: A colorless, aromatic, liquid hydrocarbon, C10H12O2 resemblingthe phenols, and hence also called eugenic acid. It is found in theoils of pimento and cloves.
eugeny: Nobleness of birth. [Obs.]
eugh: The yew. [Obs.] Dryden.
euharmonic: Producing mathematically perfect harmony or concord; sweetly orperfectly harmonious.
euhemerism: The theory, held by Euhemerus, that the gods of mythology werebut deified mortals, and their deeds only the amplification inimagination of human acts.
euhemerist: One who advocates euhemerism.
euhemeristic: Of or pertaining to euhemerism.
euhemerize: To interpret (mythology) on the theory of euhemerism.
euisopoda: A group which includes the typical Isopoda.
eulachon: The candlefish. [Written also oulachan, oolacan, and ulikon.]See Candlefish.
eulerian: Pertaining Euler, a German mathematician of the 18th century.Eulerian integrals, certain definite integrals whose properties werefirst investigated by Euler.
eulogist: One who eulogizes or praises; panegyrist; encomiast. Buckle.
eulogium: A formal eulogy. Smollett.
eulogize: To speak or write in commendation of (another); to extol inspeech or writing; to praise.
eulogy: A speech or writing in commendation of the character orservices of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth.Eulogies turn into elegies. Spenser.
eulytite: a mineral, consisting chiefly of the silicate of bismuth, foundat Freiberg; -- called also culytine.
eumenides: A euphemistic name for the Furies of Erinyes.
eumolpus: A genus of small beetles, one species of which (E. viti) isvery injurious to the vines in the wine countries of Europe.
eunomian: A follower of Eunomius, bishop of Cyzicus (4th century A. D.),who held that Christ was not God but a created being, having a naturedifferent from that of the Father.-- a.
eunomy: Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government. [R.]Mitford.
eunuch: A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a classof such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women'sapartments. Some of them, in former times, gained high official rank.
eunuchism: The state of being eunuch. Bp. Hall.
euonymin: A principle or mixture of principles derived from Euonymusatropurpureus, or spindle tree.
euonymus: A genus of small European and American trees; the spindle tree.The bark is used as a cathartic.
euornithes: The division of Aves which includes all the typical birds, orall living birds except the penguins and birds of ostrichlike form.
euosmitte: A fossil resin, so called from its strong, peculiar, pleasantodor.
eupathy: Right feeling. [R.] Harris.
eupatorium: A genus of perennial, composite herbs including hemp agrimony,boneset, throughwort, etc.
eupatrid: One well born, or of noble birth.
eupeptic: Of or pertaining to good digestion; easy of digestion; having agood digestion; as, eupeptic food; an eupeptic man.Wrapt in lazy eupeptic fat. Carlyle.
euphemism: A figure in which a harts or indelicate word or expression issoftened; a way of describing an offensive thing by an inoffensiveexpression; a mild name for something disagreeable.
euphemize: To express by a euphemism, or in delicate language; to make useof euphemistic expressions.
euphoniad: An instrument in which are combined the characteristic tones ofthe organ and various other instruments. [R.]
euphonicon: A kind of uptight piano.
euphonious: Pleasing or sweet in sound; euphonic; smooth-sounding. Hallam.-- Eu*pho"ni*ous*ly, adv.
euphonism: An agreeable combination of sounds; euphony.
euphonium: A bass instrument of the saxhorn family.
euphonize: To make euphonic. [R.]
euphonon: An instrument resembling the organ in tine and the uprightpiano in form. It is characterized by great strength and sweetness oftone.
euphonous: Euphonious. [R.]
euphony: A pleasing or sweet sound; an easy, smooth enunciation ofsounds; a pronunciation of letters and syllables which is pleasing tothe ear.
euphorbia: Spurge, or bastard spurge, a genus of plants of many species,mostly shrubby, herbaceous succulents, affording an acrid, milkyjuice. Some of them are armed with thorns. Most of them yieldpowerful emetic and cathartic products.
euphorbium: An inodorous exudation, usually in the form of yellow tears,produced chiefly by the African Euphorbia resinifrea. It was formerlyemployed medicinally, but was found so violent in its effects thatits use is nearly abandoned.
euphotide: A rock occurring in the Alps, consisting of saussurite andsmaragdite; -- sometimes called gabbro.
euphrasy: The plant eyesight (euphrasia officionalis), formerly regardedas beneficial in disorders of the eyes.Then purged with euphrasy and rue The visual nerve, for he had muchto see. Milton.
euphroe: A block or long slat of wood, perforated for the passage of thecrowfoot, or cords by which an awning is held up. [Written alsouphroe and uvrou.] Knight.
euphuism: An affectation of excessive elegance and refinement oflanguage; high-flown diction.
euphuist: One who affects excessive refinement and elegance of language;-- applied esp. to a class of writers, in the age of Elizabeth, whoseproductions are marked by affected conceits and high-flown diction.
euphuistic: Belonging to the euphuists, or euphuism; affectedly refined.
euphuize: To affect excessive refinement in language; to be overnice inexpression.
eupione: A limpid, oily liquid obtained by the destructive distillationof various vegetable and animal substances; -- specifically, an oilconsisting largely of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series.[Written also eupion.]
eupittone: A yellow, crystalline substance, resembling aurin, and obtainedby the oxidation of pittacal; -- called also eupittonic acid.[Written also eupitton.]
eupittonic: Pertaining to, or derived from, eupittone.
euplastic: Having the capacity of becoming organizable in a high degree,as the matter forming the false membranes which sometimes result fromacute inflammation in a healthy person. Dunglison.
euplectella: A genus of elegant, glassy sponges, consisting of interwovensiliceous fibers, and growing in the form of a cornucopia; -- calledalso Venus's flower-basket.
euplexoptera: An order of insects, including the earwig. The anterior wingsare short, in the form of elytra, while the posterior wings fold upbeneath them. See Earwig.
eupnaea: Normal breathing where arterialization of the blood is normal,in distinction from dyspnæa, in which the blood is insufficientlyarterialized. Foster.
eurasian: Of European and Asiatic descent; of or pertaining to bothEurope and Asia; as, the great Eurasian plain.
eurasiatio: Of or pertaining to the continents of Europe and Asia combined.
eureka: The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to havecried out "Eureka! eureka!" (I have found it! I have found it!), uponsuddenly discovering a method of finding out how much the gold ofKing Hiero's crown had been alloyed. Hence, an expression of triumphconcerning a discovery.
eurhipidurous: Having a fanlike tail; belonging to the Eurhipiduræ, a divisionof Aves which includes all living birds.
euripize: To whirl hither and thither. [Obs.]
euripus: A strait; a narrow tract of water, where the tide, or acurrent, flows and reflows with violence, as the ancient fright ofthis name between Eubæa and Bæotia. Hence, a flux and reflux. Burke.
eurite: A compact feldspathic rock; felsite. See Felsite.
euritic: Of or pelating to eurite.
euroclydon: A tempestuous northeast wind which blows in the Mediterranean.See Levanter.A tempestuous wind called Euroclydon. Acts xxvii. 14.
european: Of or pertaining to Europe, or to its inhabitants. On theEuropean plain, having rooms to let, and leaving it optional withguests whether they will take meals in the house; -- said of hotels.[U. S.]
europeanize: To cause to become like the Europeans in manners or character;to habituate or accustom to European usages.A state of society . . . changed and Europenized. Lubbock.
europium: A metallic element of the rare-earth group, discoveredspectroscopically by Demarcay in 1896. Symbol, Eu; at. wt., 152.0.
eurus: The east wind.
euryale: A genus of water lilies, growing in India and China. The onlyspecies (E. ferox) is very prickly on the peduncles and calyx. Therootstocks and seeds are used as food.
euryalida: A tribe of Ophiuroidea, including the genera Euryale,Astrophyton, etc. They generally have the arms branched. SeeAstrophyton.
eurycerous: Having broad horns.
eurypteroid: Like, or pertaining to, the genus Euryperus.
eurypteroidea: An extinct order of Merostomata, of which the genus Eurypterusis the type. They are found only in Paleozoic rocks. [Written alsoEurypterida.]
eurypterus: A genus of extinct Merostomata, found in Silurian rocks. Someof the species are more than three feet long.
eurythmy: Just or harmonious proportion or movement, as in thecomposition of a poem, an edifice, a painting, or a statue.
eusebian: A follower of Eusebius, bishop of Cæsarea, who was a friend andprotector of Arius.
eustyle: See Intercolumnlation.
eutaxy: Good or established order or arrangement. [R.] E. Waterhouse.
eutectic: Of maximum fusibility; -- said of an alloy or mixture which hasthe lowest melting point which it is possible to obtain by thecombination of the given components.
euterpe: The Muse who presided over music.
euterpean: Of or pertaining to Euterpe or to music.
eutexia: The principle or process of forming from given components theeutectic alloy, or alloy of maximum fusibility.
euthanasia: An easy death; a mode of dying to be desired. "An euthanasia ofall thought." Hazlitt.The kindest wish of my friends is euthanasia. Arbuthnot.
euthanasy: Same as Euthanasia.
euthiochroic: Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid so called. Euthiochroicacid (Chem.), a complex derivative of hydroquinone and sulphonic(thionic) acid.-- so called because it contains sulphur, and forms brilliantlycolored (yellow) salts.
euthyneura: A large division of gastropod molluske, including thePulmonifera and Opisthobranchiata.
eutrophy: Healthy nutrition; soundless as regards the nutritivefunctions.
eutychian: A follower of Eutyches [5th century], who held that the divineand the human in the person of Christ were blended together as toconstitute but one nature; a monophysite; -- opposed to Nestorian.
eutychianism: The doctrine of Eutyches and his followers.
euxanthic: Having a yellow color; pertaining to, derived from, orresembling, euxanthin. Euxanthic acid (Chem.), a yellow, crystalline,organic acid, extracted from euxanthin.
euxanthin: A yellow pigment imported from India and China. It has a strongodor, and is said to be obtained from the urine of herbivorousanimals when fed on the mango. It consists if a magnesium salt ofeuxanthic acid. Called also puri, purree, and Indian yellow.
euxenite: A brownish black mineral with a metallic luster, found inNorway. It contains niobium, titanium, yttrium, and uranium, withsome other metals.
evacate: To empty. [Obs.] Harvey.
evacuant: Emptying; evacuative; purgative; cathartic.-- n. (Med.)
evacuate: To let blood [Obs.] Burton.
evacuative: Serving of tending to evacuate; cathartic; purgative.
evacuator: One who evacuates; a nullifier. "Evacuators of the law."Hammond.
evacuatory: A purgative.
evade: To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity,subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly;as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force ofan argument.The heathen had a method, more truly their own, of evading theChristian miracles. Trench.
evadible: Capable of being evaded. [R.]
evagation: A wandering about; excursion; a roving. [R.] Ray.
evaginate: Protruded, or grown out, as an evagination; turned inside out;unsheathed; evaginated; as, an evaginate membrane.
evagination: The act of unsheathing.
eval: Relating to time or duration. [Obs.]
evaluate: To fix the value of; to rate; to appraise.
evaluation: Valuation; appraisement. J. S. Mill.
evanesce: To vanish away; to because dissipated and disappear, likevapor.I believe him to have evanesced or evaporated. De Quincey.
evanescence: The act or state of vanishing away; disappearance; as, theevanescence of vapor, of a dream, of earthly plants or hopes.Rambler.
evanescently: ; imperceptibly. Chalmers.
evangel: Good news; announcement of glad tidings; especially, thegospel, or a gospel. Milton.Her funeral anthem is a glad evangel. Whittier.
evangelian: Rendering thanks for favors.
evangelic: Belonging to, or contained in, the gospel; evangelical."Evangelic truth." J. Foster.
evangelical: One of evangelical principles.
evangelicalism: Adherence to evangelical doctrines; evangelism. G. Eliot.
evangelically: In an evangelical manner.
evangelicalness: State of being evangelical.
evangelicism: Evangelical principles; evangelism.
evangelicity: Evangelicism.
evangelism: The preaching or promulgation of the gospel. Bacon.
evangelist: A bringer of the glad tidings of Church and his doctrines.Specially
evangelistary: A selection of passages from the Gospels, as a lesson in divineservice. Porson.
evangelistic: Pertaining to the four evangelists; designed or fitted toevangelize; evangelical; as, evangelistic efforts.
evangelization: The act of evangelizing; the state of being evangelized.The work of Christ's ministers is evangelization. Hobbes.
evangelize: To instruct in the gospel; to preach the gospel to; to convertto Christianity; as, to evangelize the world.His apostles whom he sends To evangelize the nations. Milton.
evangely: Evangel. [Obs.]The sacred pledge of Christ's evangely. Spenser.
evangile: Good tidings; evangel. [R.]Above all, the Servians . . . read, with much avidity, the evangileof their freedom. Londor.
evanid: Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as,evanid color. [Obs.]They are very transistory and evanid. Barrow.
evanish: To vanish.Or like the rainbow's lovely form, Evanishing amid the storm. Burns.
evanishment: A vanishing; disappearance. [R.] T. Jefferson.
evaporable: Capable of being converted into vapor, or dissipated byevaporation.
evaporate: Dispersed in vapors. Thomson.
evaporation: See Vaporization.
evaporative: Pertaining to, or producing, evaporation; as, the evaporativeprocess.
evaporator: An apparatus for condensing vegetable juices, or for dryingfruit by heat.
evaporometer: An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of a fluidevaporated in a given time; an atmometer.
evasible: That may be evaded. [R.]
evasion: The act of eluding or avoiding, particularly the pressure of anargument, accusation, charge, or interrogation; artful means ofeluding.Thou . . . by evasions thy crime uncoverest more. Milton.
evasive: Tending to evade, or marked by evasion; elusive; shuffling;avoiding by artifice.Thus he, though conscious of the ethereal guest, Answered evasive ofthe sly request. Pope.Stammered out a few evasive phrases. Macaulay.-- E*va"sive*ly , adv.-- E*va"sive*ness, n.
evectics: The branch of medical science which teaches the method ofacquiring a good habit of body. [Obs.]
even: Evening. See Eve, n. 1. [Poetic.] Shak.
evene: To happen. [Obs.] Hewyt.
evenfall: Beginning of evening. "At the quiet evenfall." Tennyson.
evenhand: Equality. [Obs.] Bacon.
evenhanded: Fair or impartial; unbiased. "Evenhanded justice." Shak.-- E"ven*hand`ed*ly, adv.-- E"ven*hand`ed*ness, n.
evenly: With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness,elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably;impartially; serenely.
evenminded: Having equanimity.
evenness: The state of being ven, level, or disturbed; smoothness;horizontal position; uniformity; impartiality; calmness; equanimity;appropriate place or level; as, evenness of surface, of a fluid atrest, of motion, of dealings, of temper, of condition.It had need be something extraordinary, that must warrant an ordinaryperson to rise higher than his own evenness. Jer. Taylor.
evensong: A song for the evening; the evening service or form of worship(in the Church of England including vespers and compline); also, thetime of evensong. Wyclif. Milton.
event: To break forth. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
eventerate: To rip open; todisembowel. [Obs.] Sir. T. Brown.
eventful: Full of, or rich in, events or incidents; as, an eventfuljourney; an eventful period of history; an eventful period of life.
eventide: The time of evening; evening. [Poetic.] Spenser.
eventilation: The act of eventilating; discussion. [Obs.] Bp. Berkely.
eventless: Without events; tame; monotomous; marked by nothing unusual;uneventful.
eventognathi: An order of fishes including a vast number of freshwaterspecies such as the carp, loach, chub, etc.
eventual: Dependent on events; contingent. Marshall.
eventuality: Disposition to take cognizance of events.
eventually: In an eventual manner; finally; ultimately.
eventuate: To come out finally or in conclusion; to result; to come topass.
eventuation: The act of eventuating or happening as a result; the outcome.R. W. Hamilton.
everduring: Everlasting. Shak.
everglade: A swamp or low tract of land inundated with water andinterspersed with hummocks, or small islands, and patches of highgrass; as, the everglades of Florida. [U. S.]
evergreen: Remaining unwithered through the winter, or retainingunwithered leaves until the leaves of the next year are expanded, aspines cedars, hemlocks, and the like.
evergreen state: Washington; -- a nickname alluding to the abundance ofevergreen trees.
everlasting: A plant whose flowers may be dried without losing their form orcolor, as the pearly everlasting (Anaphalis margaritacea), theimmortelle of the French, the cudweeds, etc.
everlastingly: In an everlasting manner.
everlastingness: The state of being everlasting; endless duration; indefiniteduration.
evermore: During eternity; always; forever; for an indefinite period; atall times; -- often used substantively with for.Seek the Lord . . . Seek his face evermore. Ps. cv. 4.And, behold, I am alive for evermore. Rev. i. 18.Which flow from the presence of God for evermore. Tillotson.I evermore did love you, Hermia. Shak.
evernic: Pertaining to Evernia, a genus of lichens; as, evernic acid.
everse: To overthrow or subvert. [Obs.] Glanvill.
eversive: Tending to evert or overthrow; subversive; with of.A maxim eversive . . . of all justice and morality. Geddes.
everybody: Every person.
everyday: Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suitor clothes.The mechanical drudgery of his everyday employment. Sir. J. Herchel.
everyone: Everybody; -- commonly separated, every one.
everything: Whatever pertains to the subject under consideration; allthings.More wise, more learned, more just, more everything. Pope.
everywhen: At any or all times; every instant. [R.] "Eternal law issilently present everywhere and everywhen." Carlyle.
everywhere: In every place; in all places; hence, in every part; throughly;altogether.
everywhereness: Ubiquity; omnipresence. [R.] Grew.
evesdrop: See Eavesdrop.
evesdropper: See Eavesdropper.
evestigate: To investigate. [Obs.] Bailey.
evet: The common newt or eft. In America often applied to severalspecies of aquatic salamanders. [Written also evat.]
evibrate: To vibrate. [Obs.] Cockeram.
evict: To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramountright or claim of such right; to eject; to oust.The law of England would speedily evict them out of their possession.Sir. J. Davies.
evidence: That which is legally submitted to competent tribunal, as ameans of ascertaining the truth of any alleged matter of fact underinvestigation before it; means of making proof; -- the latter,strictly speaking, not being synonymous with evidence, but rather theeffect of it. Greenleaf. Circumstantial evidence, Conclusiveevidence, etc. See under Circumstantial, Conclusive, etc.-- Crown's, King's, or Queen's evidence, evidence for the crown.[Eng.] -- State's evidence, evidence for the government or thepeople. [U. S. ] -- To turn King's, Queen's or State's evidence, toconfess a crime and give evidence against one's accomplices.
evidencer: One whi gives evidence.
evident: Clear to the vision; especially, clear to the understanding,and satisfactory to the judgment; as, the figure or color of a bodyis evident to the senses; the guilt of an offender can not always bemade evident.Your honor and your goodness is so evident. Shak.And in our faces evident the sings Of foul concupiscence. Milton.
evidential: Relating to, or affording, evidence; indicative; especially,relating to the evidences of Christianity. Bp. Fleetwood. "Evidentialtracks." Earle..-- Ev`i*den"tial*ly, adv.
evidentiary: Furnishing evidence; asserting; proving; evidential.When a fact is supposed, although incorrectly, to be evidentiary of,a mark of, some other fact. J. S. Mill.
evidently: In an evident manner; clearly; plainly.Before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth. Gal.iii. 1.He has evidently in the prime of youth. W. Irving.
evidentness: State of being evident.
evigilation: A waking up or awakening. [Obs.]
evil: In an evil manner; not well; ill; badly; unhappily;injuriously; unkindly. Shak.It went evil with his house. 1 Chron. vii. 23.The Egyptians evil entreated us, and affected us. Deut. xxvi. 6.
evil eye: . See Evil eye under Evil, a.
evil-eyed: Possessed of the supposed evil eye; also, looking with envy,jealousy, or bad design; malicious. Shak.
evil-favored: Having a bad countenance or appearance; ill-favored; blemished;deformed. Bacon.-- E"vil-fa`vored*ness, n. Deut. xvi. 1.
evil-minded: Having evil dispositions or intentions; disposed to mischief orsin; malicious; malignant; wicked.-- E"vil-mind`ed*ness, n.
evilly: In an evil manner; not well; ill. [Obs.] "Good deeds evillybestowed." Shak.
evilness: The condition or quality of being evil; badness; viciousness;malignity; vileness; as, evilness of heart; the evilness of sin.
evincement: The act of evincing or proving, or the state of being evinced.
evincible: Capable of being proved or clearly brought to light;demonstrable. Sir. M. Hale. --E*vin"ci*bly, adv.
evincive: Tending to prove; having the power to demonstrate;demonstrative; indicative.
evirate: To emasculate; to dispossess of manhood. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
eviration: Castration. [Obs.]
eviscerate: To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; to gut.
evisceration: A disemboweling.
evitable: A voidable. [R.] Hooker.
evitate: To shun; to avoid. [Obs.] Shak.
evitation: A shunning; avoidance. [Obs.] Bacon.
evite: To shun. [Obs.] Dryton.
eviternal: Eternal; everlasting. [Obs.] -- Ev`i*ter"nal*ly, adv. Bp. Hall.
eviternity: Eternity. [Obs.]
evocate: To call out or forth; to summon; to evoke. [R.] Stackhouse.
evocation: The act of calling out or forth. Sir. T. Browne.The evocation of that better spirit. M. Arnold.
evocative: Calling forth; serving to evoke; developing.Evocative power over all that is eloquent and expressive in thebetter soul of man. W. Pater.
evocator: One who calls forth. [R.]
evoke: Apt to fly away. [Obs. or R.] Blount.
evolation: A flying out or up. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
evolute: A curve from which another curve, called the involute orevolvent, is described by the end of a thread gradually wound uponthe former, or unwound from it. See Involute. It is the locus of thecenters of all the circles which are osculatory to the given curve orevolvent.
evolutility: The faculty possessed by all substances capable of self-nourishment of manifesting the nutritive acts by changes of form, ofvolume, or of structure. Syd. Soc. Lex.
evolution: The formation of an involute by unwrapping a thread from acurve as an evolute. Hutton.
evolutional: Relating to evolution. "Evolutional changes." H. Spenser.
evolutionary: Relating to evolution; as, evolutionary discussions.
evolutionism: The theory of, or belief in, evolution. See Evolution, 6 and 7.
evolve: To become open, disclosed, or developed; to pass through aprocess of evolution. Prior.
evolvement: The act of evolving, or the state of being evolved; evolution.
evolvent: The involute of a curve. See Involute, and Evolute.
evomit: To vomit. [Obs.]
evomition: The act of vomiting. [Obs.] Swift.
evulgate: To publish abroad. [Obs.]
evulgation: A divulging. [Obs.]
evulsion: The act of plucking out; a rooting out.
ew: A yew. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ewe: The female of the sheep, and of sheeplike animals.
ewe-necked: Having a neck like a ewe; -- said of horses in which the archof the neck is deficent, being somewhat hollowed out. Youwatt.
ewer: A kind of widemouthed pitcher or jug; esp., one used to holdwater for the toilet.Basins and ewers to lave her dainty hands. Shak.
ewt: The newt.
ex libris: An inscription, label, or the like, in a book indicating itsownership; esp., a bookplate.
ex officio: From office; by virtue, or as a consequence, of an office;officially.
ex parte: Upon or from one side only; one-sided; partial; as, an ex partestatement. Ex parte application, one made without notice oropportunity to oppose.-- Ex parte council, one that assembles at the request of only oneof the parties in dispute.-- Ex parte hearing or evidence (Law), that which is had or taken byone side or party in the absence of the other. Hearings before grandjuries, and affidavits, are ex parte. Wharton's Law Dict. Burrill.
ex-: . A prefix from the latin preposition, ex, akin to Gr. 'ex or'ek signifying out of, out, proceeding from. Hence, in composition,it signifies out of, as, in exhale, exclude; off, from, or out. as inexscind; beyond, as, in excess, exceed, excel; and sometimes has aprivative sense of without, as in exalbuminuos, exsanguinous. In somewords, it intensifies the meaning; in others, it has little affect onthe signification. It becomes ef- before f, as in effuse. The form e-occurs instead of ex- before b, d, g, l, m, n, r, and v, as inebullient, emanate, enormous, etc. In words from the French it oftenappears as es-, sometimes as s- or é-; as, escape, scape, élite. Ex-,prefixed to names implying office, station, condition, denotes thatthe person formerly held the office, or is out of the office orcondition now; as, ex-president, ex-governor, ex-mayor, ex-convict.The Greek form 'ex becomes ex in English, as in exarch; 'ek becomesec, as in eccentric.
ex-official: Proceeding from office or authority.
ex-voto: An offering to a church in fulfillment of a vow.
exacerbate: To render more violent or bitter; to irriate; to exasperate; toimbitter, as passions or disease. Broughman.
exacerbation: A periodical increase of violence in a disease, as in remittentor continious fever; an increased energy of diseased and painfulaction.
exacerbescence: Increase of irritation or violence, particularly the increaseof a fever or disease.
exacervation: The act of heaping up. [Obs.] Bailey.
exacinate: To remove the kernel form.
exacination: Removal of the kernel.
exact: To demand or require authoritatively or peremptorily, as aright; to enforce the payment of, or a yielding of; to compel toyield or to furnish; hence, to wrest, as a fee or reward when none isdue; -- followed by from or of before the one subjected to exaction;as, to exact tribute, fees, obedience, etc., from or of some one.He said into them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you.Luke. iii. 13.Years of servise past From grateful souls exact reward at lastDryden.My designs Exact me in another place. Massinger.
exacter: An exactor. [R.]
exacting: Oppressive or unreasonably severe in making demands orrequiring the exact fulfillment of obligations; harsh; severe. "Atemper so exacting." T. Arnold -- Ex*act"ing*ly, adv.-- Ex*act"ing*ness, n.
exactitude: The quality of being exact; exactness.
exactly: In an exact manner; precisely according to a rule, standard, orfact; accurately; strictly; correctly; nicely. "Exactly wrought."Shak.His enemies were pleased, for he had acted exactly as their interestsrequired. Bancroft.
exactor: One who exacts or demands by authority or right; hence, anextortioner; also, one unreasonably severe in injunctions or demands.Jer. Taylor.
exactress: A woman who is an exactor. [R.] B. Jonson.
exacuate: To whet or sharpen. [Obs.] B. Jonson.-- Ex*ac`u*a"tion, n. [Obs.]
exaeresis: In old writers, the operations concerned in the removal ofparts of the body.
exaggerated: Enlarged beyond bounds or the truth.-- Ex*ag"ger*a`ted*ly, adv.
exaggerating: That exaggerates; enlarging beyond bounds.-- Ex*ag"ger*a`ting*ly, adv.
exaggeration: A representation of things beyond natural life, in expression,beauty, power, vigor.
exaggerative: Tending to exaggerate; involving exaggeration. "Exaggerativelanguage." Geddes. "Exaggerative pictures." W. J. Linton.-- Ex*ag"ger*a*tive*ly, adv. Carlyle.
exaggerator: One who exaggerates; one addicted to exaggeration. L. Horner.
exaggeratory: Containing, or tending to, exaggeration; exaggerative. Johnson.
exagitation: Agitation. [Obs.] Bailey.
exalbuminous: Having no albumen about the embryo; -- said of certain seeds.
exalt: To render pure or refined; to intensify or concentrate; as, toexalt the juices of bodies.With chemic art exalts the mineral powers. Pope.
exaltate: Exercising its highest influence; -- said of a planet. [Obs.]Chaucer.
exaltation: The refinement or subtilization of a body, or the increasing ofits virtue or principal property.
exalted: Raised to lofty height; elevated; extolled; refined; dignified;sublime.Wiser far than Solomon, Of more exalted mind. Milton.Time never fails to bring every exalted reputation to a strictscrutiny. Ames.-- Ex*alt"ed*ly, adv.-- Ex*alt"ed*ness, n. "The exaltedness of some minds." T. Gray.
exalter: One who exalts or raises to dignity.
exaltment: Exaltation. [Obs.] Barrow.
examen: Examination; inquiry. [R.] "A critical examen of the twopieces." Cowper.
exametron: An hexameter. [Obs.] Chaucer.
examinable: Capable of being examined or inquired into. Bacon.
examinate: A person subjected to examination. [Obs.] Bacon.
examinator: An examiner. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
examinee: A person examined.
examiner: One who examines, tries, or inspects; one who interrogates; anofficer or person charged with the duty of making an examination; as,an examiner of students for a degree; an examiner in chancery, in thepatent office, etc.
examinership: The office or rank of an examiner.
examining: Having power to examine; appointed to examine; as, an examiningcommittee.
examplary: Serving for example or pattern; exemplary. [Obs.] Hooker.
example: To set an example for; to give a precedent for; to exemplify;to give an instance of; to instance. [Obs.] "I may example mydigression by some mighty precedent." Shak.Burke devoted himself to this duty with a fervid assiduity that hasnot often been exampled, and has never been surpassed. J. Morley.
exampleless: Without or above example. [R.]
exampler: A pattern; an exemplar. [Obs.]
exampless: Exampleless. [Wrongly formed.] B. Jonson.
exanguious: Bloodless. [Obs.] See Exsanguious. Sir T. Browne.
exangulous: Having no corners; without angles. [R.]
exanimate: To deprive of animation or of life. [Obs.]
exanimation: Deprivation of life or of spirits. [R.] Bailey.
exanimous: Lifeless; dead. [Obs.] Johnson.
exannulate: Having the sporangium destitute of a ring; -- said of certaingenera of ferns.
exanthem: Same as Exanthema.
exanthema: An efflorescence or discoloration of the skin; an eruption orbreaking out, as in measles, smallpox, scarlatina, and the likediseases; -- sometimes limited to eruptions attended with fever.Dunglison.
exanthesis: An eruption of the skin; cutaneous efflorescence.
exantlate: To exhaust or wear out. [Obs.] "Seeds . . . wearied orexantlated." Boyle.
exantlation: Act of drawing out ; exhaustion. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
exarate: To plow up; also, to engrave; to write. [Obs.] Blount.
exaration: Act of plowing; also, act of writing. [Obs.] Bailey.
exarch: A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of theByzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over severalmonasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch ,who visits the clergy, investigates ecclesiastical cases, etc.
exarchate: The office or the province of an exarch. Jer. Taylor.
exarillate: Having no aril; -- said of certain seeds, or of the plantsproducing them.
exarticulate: Having but one joint; -- said of certain insects.
exarticulation: Luxation; the dislocation of a joint. Bailey.
exasperate: Exasperated; imbittered. [Obs.] Shak.Like swallows which the exasperate dying year Sets spinning. Mrs.Browning.
exasperater: One who exasperates or inflames anger, enmity, or violence.
exaspidean: Having the anterior scute
exauctorate: See Exauthorate. [Obs.]
exauctoration: See Exauthoration.
exaugurate: To annul the consecration of; to secularize; to unhellow.[Obs.] Holland.
exauguration: The act of exaugurating; desecration. [Obs.]
exauthorate: To deprive of authority or office; to depose; to discharge.[Obs.]Exauthorated for their unworthiness. Jer. Taylor.
exauthoration: Deprivation of authority or dignity; degration. [Obs.] Jer.Taylor.
exauthorize: To deprive of uthority. [Obs.] Selden.
excalceate: To deprive of shoes. [Obs.] Chambers.
excalceation: The act of depriving or divesting of shoes. [Obs.] Chambers.
excalfaction: A heating or warming; calefaction. [Obs.] Blount.
excalfactive: Serving to heat; warming. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
excalfactory: Heating; warming. [Obs.] Holland.
excalibur: The name of King Arthur's mythical sword. [Written alsoExcalibar, Excalibor, Escalibar, and Caliburn.] Tennyson.
excandescent: White or glowing with heat. [R.] Ure.
excantation: Disenchantment by a countercharm. [Obs.] Gayton.
excarnate: To deprive or clear of flesh. Grew.
excarnation: The act of depriving or divesting of flesh; excarnification; --opposed to incarnation.
excarnificate: To clear of flesh; to excarnate. Dr. H. More.
excarnification: The act of excarnificating or of depriving of flesh;excarnation. Johnson.
excavate: To dig out and remove, as earth.The material excavated was usually sand. E. L. Corthell.Excavating pump, a kind of dredging apparatus for excavating underwater, in which silt and loose material mixed with water are drawn upby a pump. Knight.
excavator: One who, or that which, excavates or hollows out; a machine, asa dredging machine, or a tool, for excavating.
excave: To excavate. [Obs.] Cockeram.
excecate: To blind. [Obs.] Cockeram.
excecation: The act of making blind. [Obs.] Bp. Richardson.
excedent: Excess. [R.]
exceed: To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit ormeasure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a badsense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power,skill, etc. ; one offender exceeds another in villainy; his rankexceeds yours.Name the time, but let it not Exceed three days. Shak.Observes how much a chintz exceeds mohair. Pope.
exceedable: Capable of exceeding or surpassing. [Obs.] Sherwood.
exceeder: One who exceeds. Bp. Montagu.
exceeding: More than usual; extraordinary; more than sufficient;measureless. "The exceeding riches of his grace." Eph. ii. 7.-- Ex*ceed"ing*ness, n. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
exceedingly: To a very great degree; beyond what is usual; surpassingly. Itsignifies more than very.
excel: To surpass others in good qualities, laudable actions, oracquirements; to be distinguished by superiority; as, to excel inmathematics, or classics.Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel. Gen. xlix. 4.Then peers grew proud in horsemanship t' excel. Pope.
excellent: Excellently; eminently; exceedingly. [Obs.] "This comes offwell and excellent." Shak.
excelsior: More lofty; still higher; ever upward.
excentral: Out of the center.
excentricity: . (Math.) Same as Eccentricity.
except: To take exception; to object; -- usually followed by to,sometimes by against; as, to except to a witness or his testimony.Except thou wilt except against my love. Shak.
exceptant: Making exception.
excepting: , but properly a participle. With rejection or exception of;excluding; except. "Excepting your worship's presence." Shak.No one was ever yet made utterly miserable, excepting by himself.Lubbock.
exception: An objection, oral or written, taken, in the course of anaction, as to bail or security; or as to the decision of a judge, inthe course of a trail, or in his charge to a jury; or as to lapse oftime, or scandal, impertinence, or insufficiency in a pleading; also,as in conveyancing, a clause by which the grantor excepts somethingbefore granted. Burrill.
exceptionable: Liable to exception or objection; objectionable.-- Ex*cep"tion*a*ble*ness, n.This passage I look upon to be the most exceptionable in the wholepoem. Addison.
exceptional: Forming an exception; not ordinary; uncommon; rare; hence,better than the average; superior. Lyell.This particular spot had exceptional advantages. Jowett (Th. )-- Ex*cep"tion*al*ly(#), adv.
exceptioner: One who takes exceptions or makes objections. [Obs.] Milton.
exceptionless: Without exception.A universal, . . . exceptionless disqualification. Bancroft.
exceptious: Disposed or apt to take exceptions, or to object; captious.[Obs.]At least effectually silence the doubtful and exceptious. South.-- Ex*cep"tious*ness, n. [Obs.] Barrow.
exceptive: That excepts; including an exception; as, an exceptiveproposition. I. Watts.A particular and exceptive law. Milton.
exceptless: Not exceptional; usual. [Obs.]My general and exceptless rashness. Shak.
exceptor: One who takes exceptions. T. Burnet.
excerebration: The act of removing or beating out the brains.
excerebrose: Brainless. [R.]
excern: To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids areexcerned in perspiration. [R.] Bacon.
excernent: Connected with, or pertaining to, excretion.
excerp: To pick out. [Obs.] Hales.
excerpt: To select; to extract; to cite; to quote.Out of which we have excerpted the following particulars. Fuller.
excerptive: That excerpts, selects, or chooses. D. L. Mackenzie.
excerptor: One who makes excerpts; a picker; a culler.
excessive: Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch.Excessive grief [is] the enemy to the living. Shak.
exchange: The process of setting accounts or debts between partiesresiding at a distance from each other, without the intervention ofmoney, by exchanging orders or drafts, called bills of exchange.These may be drawn in one country and payable in another, in whichcase they are called foreign bills; or they may be drawn and madepayable in the same country, in which case they are called inlandbills. The term bill of exchange is often abbreviated into exchange;as, to buy or sell exchange.
exchange editor: An editor who inspects, and culls from, periodicals, orexchanges, for his own publication.
exchangeability: The quality or state of being exchangeable.The law ought not be contravened by an express article admitting theexchangeability of such persons. Washington.
exchangeably: By way of exchange.
exchanger: One who exchanges; one who practices exchange. Matt.
excheat: See Escheat. [Obs.] Spenser.
excheator: See Escheator. [Obs.]
exchequer: To institute a process against (any one) in the Court ofExchequer.
excide: To cut off. [R.]
excipient: Taking an exception.
excisable: Liable or subject to excise; as, tobacco in an excisablecommodity.
excise: To cut out or off; to separate and remove; as, to excise atumor.
exciseman: An officer who inspects and rates articles liable to exciseduty. Macaulay.
excision: The act of cutting off from the church; excommunication.
excitability: The property manifested by living organisms, and the elementsand tissues of which they are constituted, of responding to theaction of stimulants; irritability; as, nervous excitability.
excitable: Capable of being excited, or roused into action; susceptible ofexcitement; easily stirred up, or stimulated.
excitant: Tending to excite; exciting.
excitate: To excite. [Obs.] Bacon.
excitation: The act of producing excitement (stimulation); also, theexcitement produced.
excitative: Having power to excite; tending or serving to excite;excitatory. Barrow.
excitator: A kind of discarder.
excitatory: Tending to excite; containing excitement; excitative.
excite: To call forth or increase the vital activity of an organism, orany of its parts.
exciteful: Full of exciting qualities; as, an exciteful story; excitefulplayers. Chapman.
excitement: A state of aroused or increased vital activity in an organism,or any of its organs or tissues.
exciter: One who, or that which, excites.Hope is the grand exciter of industry. Dr. H. More.
exciting: Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as,exciting events; an exciting story.-- Ex*cit"ing*ly, adv. Exciting causes (Med.), those whichimmediately produce disease, or those which excite the action ofpredisposing causes.
excitive: Serving or tending to excite; excitative. [R.] Bamfield.
excito-motion: Motion excited by reflex nerves. See Excito-motory.
excito-motor: Excitomotory; as, excito-motor power or causes.
excito-motory: Exciting motion; -- said of that portion of the nervous systemconcerned in reflex action, by which impressions are transmitted to anerve center and then reflected back so as to produce muscularcontraction without sensation or volition.
excito-nutrient: Exciting nutrition; said of the reflex influence by which thenutritional processes are either excited or modified.
excito-secretory: Exciting secretion; -- said of the influence exerted by reflexaction on the function of secretion, by which the various glands areexcited to action.
exclaim: To cry out from earnestness or passion; to utter withvehemence; to call out or declare loudly; to protest vehemently; tovociferate; to shout; as, to exclaim against oppression with wonderor astonishment; "The field is won!" he exclaimed.
exclaimer: One who exclaims.
exclamation: A word expressing outcry; an interjection; a word expressingpassion, as wonder, fear, or grief.
exclamative: Exclamatory. Earle.-- Ex*clam"a*tive*ly, adv.
exclamatory: Containing, expressing, or using exclamation; as, anexclamatory phrase or speaker. South.-- Ex*clam"a*to*ti*ly, adv.
exclave: A portion of a country which is separated from the main partand surrounded by politically alien territory. [Recent.]
exclusion: The act of expelling or ejecting a fetus or an egg from thewomb.
exclusionary: Tending to exclude; causing exclusion; exclusive.
exclusionism: The character, manner, or principles of an exclusionist.
exclusionist: One who would exclude another from some right or privilege;esp., one of the anti-popish politicians of the time of Charles
exclusive: One of a coterie who exclude others; one who from real ofaffected fastidiousness limits his acquaintance to a select few.
exclusiveness: Quality of being exclusive.
exclusivism: The act or practice of excluding being exclusive;exclusiveness.
exclusivist: One who favor or practices any from of exclusiveness orexclusivism.The field of Greek mythology . . . the favorite sporting ground ofthe exclusivists of the solar theory. Gladstone.
exclusory: Able to exclude; excluding; serving to exclude.
excoct: To boil out; to produce by boiling. [Obs.] Bacon.
excoction: The act of excocting or boiling out. [Obs.] Bacon.
excogitate: To think out; to find out or discover by thinking; to devise;to contrive. "Excogitate strange arts." Stirling.This evidence . . . thus excogitated out of the general theory.Whewell.
excogitation: The act of excogitating; a devising in the thoughts; invention;contrivance.
excommune: To exclude from participation in; to excommunicate. [Obs.]Poets . . . were excommuned Plato's common wealth Gayton.
excommunicable: Liable or deserving to be excommunicated; makingexcommunication possible or proper. "Persons excommunicable ." Bp.Hall.What offenses are excommunicable Kenle.
excommunicant: One who has been excommunicated.
excommunicate: Excommunicated; interdicted from the rites of the church.-- n.
excommunication: The act of communicating or ejecting; esp., an ecclesiasticalcensure whereby the person against whom it is pronounced is, for thetime, cast out of the communication of the church; exclusion fromfellowship in things spiritual.
excommunicator: One who excommunicates.
excommunion: . A shutting out from communion; excommunication. [Obs.]Excommunication is the utmost of ecclesiastical judicature. Milton.
excoriable: . Capable of being excoriated.The scaly covering of fishes, . . . even in such as are excoriatable.Sir T. Browne.
excoriate: To strip or wear off the skin of; to abrade; to gall; to breakand remove the cuticle of, in any manner, as by rubbing, beating, orby the action of acrid substances.
excorticate: To strip of bark or skin; to decorticate. [Obs.] "Excorticatethe tree." Evelyn.
excortication: The act of stripping off bark, or the state of being thusstripped; decortication.
excreable: Capable of being discharged by spitting. [Obs.] Swift.
excreate: To spit out; to discharge from the throat by hawking andspitting. [Obs.] Cockeram.
excreation: Act of spitting out. [Obs.] Cockeram.
excrement: Matter excreted and ejected; that which is excreted or cast outof the animal body by any of the natural emunctories; especially,alvine, discharges; dung; ordure.
excremental: Of or pertaining to excrement.
excrementive: Serving to excrete; connected with excretion or excrement. [R.]"The excrementive parts." Felthman.
excrementize: To void excrement. [R.] Life of A. Wood
excrescence: An excrescent appendage, as, a wart or tumor; anything growingout unnaturally from anything else; a preternatural or morbiddevelopment; hence, a troublesome superfluity; an incumbrance; as, anexcrescence on the body, or on a plant. "Excrescences of joy." Jer.Taylor.The excrescences of the Spanish monarchy. Addison.
excrescency: Excrescence. [Obs.]
excrescent: Growing out in an abnormal or morbid manner or as asuperfluity.Expunge the whole, or lip the excrescent parts. Pope.Excrescent letter (Philol.), a letter which has been added to a root;as, the d in alder (AS. alr) is an excrescent letter.
excrescential: Pertaining to, or resembling, an excrescence. [R.] Hawthorne.
excreta: Matters to be excreted.
excrete: To separate and throw off; to excrete urine. "The mucus thusexcreted." Hooper.
excretin: A nonnitrogenous, crystalline body, present in small quantityin human fæces.
excretive: Having the power of excreting, or promoting excretion. Harvey.
excretory: Having the quality of excreting, or throwing offexcrementitious matter.
excruciable: Liable to torment. [R.] Bailey.
excruciate: Excruciated; tortured.And here my heart long time excruciate. Chapman.
excruciating: . Torturing; racking. "Excruciating pain." V. Knox."Excruciating fears." Bentley -- Ex*cru"ci*a`ting*ly, adv.
excruciation: The act of inflicting agonizing pain, or the state of beingthus afflicted; that which excruciates; torture. Feltham.
excubation: A keeping watch. [Obs.] Bailey.
excubitorium: A gallery in a church, where persons watched all night.
exculpable: . Capable of being exculpated; deserving exculpation. Sir G.Buck.
exculpate: To clear from alleged fault or guilt; to prove to be guiltless;to relieve of blame; to acquit.He exculpated himself from being the author of the heroic epistle.Mason.I exculpate him further for his writing against me. Milman.
exculpation: The act of exculpating from alleged fault or crime; that whichexculpates; excuse.These robbers, however, were men who might have made out a strongcase in exculpation of themselves. Southey.
exculpatory: . Clearing, or tending to clear, from alleged fault or guilt;excusing. "An exculpatory letter." Johnson.
excur: To run out or forth; to extend. [Obs.] Harvey.
excurrent: Running or extending out; as, an excurrent midrib, one whichprojects beyond the apex of a leaf; an excurrent steam or trunk, onewhich continues to the top.
excurse: To journey or pass thought. [R.]
excursion: Length of stroke, as of a piston; stroke. [An awkward use ofthe word.]
excursionist: One who goes on an excursion, or pleasure trip.
excursive: Prone to make excursions; wandering; roving; exploring; as, anexcursive fancy.The course of excursive . . . understandings. I. Taylor.-- Ex*cur"sive*ly, adv.-- Ex*cur"sive*ness, , n.
excursus: A dissertation or digression appended to a work, and containinga more extended exposition of some important point or topic.
excusable: That may be excused, forgiven, justified, or acquitted ofblame; pardonable; as, the man is excusable; an excusable action.-- Ex*cus"a*ble*ness, n.-- Ex*cus"a*bly, adv.The excusableness of my dissatisfaction. Boyle.
excusation: Excuse; apology. [Obs.] Bacon.
excusator: One who makes, or is authorized to make, an excuse; anapologist. [Obs.] Hume.
excusatory: Making or containing excuse or apology; apologetical; as, anexcusatory plea.
excuseless: Having no excuse; not admitting of excuse or apology. Whillock.
excusement: Excuse. [Obs.] Gower.
excussion: The act of excusing; seizure by law. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
execrable: Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable;abominable; as, an execrable wretch. "Execrable pride." Hooker.-- Ex"e*cra*ble*ness, n.-- Ex"e*cra*bly, adv.
execrate: To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse;to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly;to abhor; to abominate. "They . . . execrate their lct." Cowper.
execrative: Cursing; imprecatory; vilifying. Carlyle.-- Ex"e*cra*tive*ly, adv.
execratory: Of the nature of execration; imprecatory; denunciatory. C.Kingsley.-- n.
exect: To cut off or out. [Obs.] See Exsect. Harvey.
exection: See Exsection.
executable: Capable of being executed; feasible; as, an executable project.[R.]
executant: One who executes or performs; esp., a performer on a musicalinstrument.Great executants on the organ. De Quincey.
execute: To perform, as a piece of music, either on an instrument orwith the voice; as, to execute a difficult part brilliantly.
executer: One who performs or carries into effect. See Executor.
executive: Designed or fitted for execution, or carrying into effect; as,executive talent; qualifying for, concerned with, or pertaining to,the execution of the laws or the conduct of affairs; as, executivepower or authority; executive duties, officer, department, etc.
executively: In the way of executing or performing.
executor: The person appointed by a Executor de son tort Etym
executorial: Of or pertaining to an executive.
executorship: The office of an executor.
executory: Designed to be executed or carried into effect in time to come,or to take effect on a future contingency; as, an executory devise,reminder, or estate; an executory contract. Blackstone.
executress: An executrix.
executrix: A woman exercising the functions of an executor.
exedent: Eating out; consuming. [R.]
exedra: A room in a public building, furnished with seats.
exegesis: The process of finding the roots of an equation. [Obs.]
exegete: An exegetist.
exegetics: The science of interpretation or exegesis.
exegetist: One versed in the science of exegesis or interpretation; --also called exegete.
exemplar: Exemplary. [Obs.]The exemplar piety of the father of a family. Jer. Taylor.
exemplarily: In a manner fitted or designed to be an example for imitationor for warning; by way of example.She is exemplarily loyal. Howell.Some he punisheth exemplarily. Hakewill.
exemplariness: The state or quality of being exemplary; fitness to be anexample.
exemplarity: Exemplariness. [R.]The exemplarity of Christ's life. Abp. Sharp.
exemplary: An exemplar; also, a copy of a book or writing. [Obs.] Donne.
exemplifiable: That can be exemplified.
exemplification: A copy or transcript attested to be correct by the seal of anofficer having custody of the original.
exemplifier: One who exemplifies by following a pattern.
exemptible: That may be exempted.
exemption: The act of exempting; the state of being exempt; freedom fromany charge, burden, evil, etc., to which others are subject;immunity; privilege; as, exemption of certain articles from seizure;exemption from military service; exemption from anxiety, suffering,etc.
exemptitious: Separable. [Obs.] "Exemptitious from matter." Dr. H. More.
exenterate: To take out the bowels or entrails of; to disembowel; toeviscerate; as, exenterated fishes. [R.]Exenterated rule-mongers and eviscerated logicians. Hare.
exenteration: Act of exenterating. [R.]
exequial: Of or pertaining to funerals; funereal.
exequious: Funereal. [Obs.] Drayton.
exequy: A funeral rite (usually in the plural); the ceremonies ofburial; obsequies; funeral procession.But see his exequies fulfilled in Rouen. Shak.
exercent: Practicing; professional. [Obs.] "Every exercent advocate."Ayliffe.
exercisable: That may be exercised, used, or exerted.
exercise: To exercise one's self, as under military training; to drill;to take exercise; to use action or exertion; to practice gymnastics;as, to exercise for health or amusement.I wear my trusty sword, When I do exercise. Cowper.
exerciser: One who exercises.
exercisible: Capable of being exercised, employed, or enforced; as, theauthority of a magistrate is exercisible within his jurisdiction.
exercitation: exercise; practice; use. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
exergue: The small space beneath the base line of a subject engraved ona coin or medal. It usually contains the date, place, engraver'sname, etc., or other subsidiary matter. Fairholt.
exertion: The act of exerting, or putting into motion or action; theactive exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp. a laboriousor perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; anexertion of the limbs or of the mind; it is an exertion for him tomove, to-day.
exertive: Having power or a tendency to exert; using exertion.
exertment: Exertion. [R.]
exesion: The act of eating out or through. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
exestuate: To be agitated; to boil up; to effervesce. [Obs.]
exestuation: A boiling up; effervescence. [Obs.] Boyle.
exeunt: They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all exceptHamlet. See 1st Exit.
exfetation: Imperfect fetation in some organ exterior to the uterus; extra-uterine fetation. Hoblyn.
exfoliate: To split into scales, especially to become converted intoscales at the result of heat or decomposition.
exfoliation: The scaling off of a bone, a rock, or a mineral, etc.; thestate of being exfoliated.
exfoliative: Having the power of causing exfoliation.-- n.
exhalable: Capable of being exhaled or evaporated. Boyle.
exhalant: Having the quality of exhaling or evaporating.
exhale: To rise or be given off, as vapor; to pass off, or vanish.Their inspiration exhaled in elegies. Prescott.
exhalement: Exhalation. [Obs.]
exhalence: Exhalation. [R.]
exhaust: To subject to the action of various solvents in order to removeall soluble substances or extractives; as, to exhaust a drugsuccessively with water, alcohol, and ether. Exhausted receiver.(Physics) See under Receiver.
exhauster: One who, or that which, exhausts or draws out.
exhaustibility: Capability of being exhausted.I was seriously tormented by the thought of the exhaustibility ofmusical combinations. J. S. Mill.
exhaustible: Capable of being exhausted, drained off, or expended. Johnson.
exhausting: Producing exhaustion; as, exhausting labors.-- Ex*haust"ing, adv.
exhaustion: An ancient geometrical method in which an exhaustive processwas employed. It was nearly equivalent to the modern method oflimits.
exhaustive: Serving or tending to exhaust; exhibiting all the facts orarguments; as, an exhaustive method. Ex*haust"ive*ly, adv.
exhaustless: Not be exhausted; inexhaustible; as, an exhaustless fund orstore.
exhaustment: Exhaustion; drain. [Obs.]
exhausture: Exhaustion. Wraxall.
exhedra: See Exedra.
exheredate: To disinherit. [R.] Huloet.
exheredation: A disinheriting; disherisor. [R.]
exhereditation: A disinheriting; disherison. [R.] E. Waterhouse.
exhibit: To submit, as a document, to a court or officer, in course ofproceedings; also, to present or offer officially or in legal form;to bring, as a charge.He suffered his attorney-general to exhibit a charge of high treasonagainst the earl. Clarendon.
exhibiter: One who exhibits; one who presents a petition, charge or bill.Shak.
exhibition: The act of administering a remedy.
exhibitioner: One who has a pension or allowance granted for support.A youth who had as an exhibitioner from Christ's Hospital. G. Eliot.
exhibitive: Serving for exhibition; representative; exhibitory. Norris.-- Ex*hib"it*ive*ly, adv.
exhibitor: One who exhibits.
exhibitory: Exhibiting; publicly showing. J. Warton.
exhilarant: Exciting joy, mirth, or pleasure.-- n.
exhilarate: To make merry or jolly; to enliven; to animate; to gladdengreatly; to cheer; as, good news exhilarates the mind; wineexhilarates a man.
exhilarating: That exhilarates; cheering; gladdening.-- Ex*hil"a*ra`ting*ly, adv.
exhort: To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments,as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; tourge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution.Examples gross as earth exhort me. Shak.Let me exhort you to take care of yourself. J. D. Forbes.
exhortative: Serving to exhort; exhortatory; hortative. Barrow.
exhortatory: Of or pertaining to exhortation; hortatory. Holinshed.
exhorter: One who exhorts or incites.
exhumated: Disinterred. [Obs.]
exhumation: The act of exhuming that which has been buried; as, theexhumation of a body.
exhume: To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; todisinter. Mantell.
exiccate: See Exsiccate. [Obs.] Holland.
exiccation: See Exsiccation. [Obs.]
exigence: Exigency. Hooker.
exigency: The state of being exigent; urgent or exacting want; pressingnecessity or distress; need; a case demanding immediate action,supply, or remedy; as, an unforeseen exigency. "The present exigencyof his affairs." Ludlow.
exigendary: See Exigenter.
exigent: Exacting or requiring immediate aid or action; pressing;critical. "At this exigent moment." Burke.
exigenter: An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whoseduty it was make out exigents. The office in now abolished. Cowell.
exigible: That may be exacted; repairable. [R.] A. Smith.
exiguity: Scantiness; smallness; thinness. [R.] Boyle.
exiguous: Scanty; small; slender; diminutive. [R.] "Exiguous resources."Carlyle.-- Ex*ig"uous*ness, n. [R.]
exile: To banish or expel from one's own country or home; to driveaway. "Exiled from eternal God." Tennyson.Calling home our exiled friends abroad. Shak.
exilement: Banishment. [R.] Sir. H. Wotton.
exilic: Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews inBabylon. Encyc. Dict.
exilition: A sudden springing or leaping out. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
exility: Smallness; meagerness; slenderness; fineness, thinness. [R.]Paley.
eximious: Select; choice; hence, extraordinary, excellent. [Obs.]The eximious and arcane science of physic. Fuller.
exinanite: To make empty; to render of no effect; to humble. [Obs.] Bp.Pearson.
exinanition: n. [L. exinanitio.] An emptying; an enfeebling; exhaustion;humiliation. [Obs.]Fastings to the exinanition of spirits. Jer. Taylor.
existency: Existence. [R.] Sir M. Hale.
existent: Having being or existence; existing; being; occurring now;taking place.The eyes and mind are fastened on objects which have no real being,as if they were truly existent. Dryden.
existential: Having existence. [Archaic] Bp. Barlow. --Ex`is*ten"tial*ly,adv. [Archaic]Existentially as well as essentially intelligent. Colerige.
exister: One who exists.
existible: Capable of existence. Grew.
existimation: Esteem; opinion; reputation. [Obs.] Steele.
exit: He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth.
exmoor: A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen,exoskeleton.
exocarp: The outer portion of a fruit, as the flesh of a peach or therind of an orange. See Illust. of Drupe.
exoccipital: Pertaining to a bone or region on each side of the greatforemen of the skull.-- n.
exoculate: To deprive of eyes. [R.] W. C. Hazlitt.
exode: The final chorus; the catastrophe.
exodic: Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said ofthe motor or efferent nerves. Opposed to esodic.
exodium: See Exode.
exody: Exodus; withdrawal. [Obs.]The time of the Jewish exody. Sir M. Hale.
exogamous: Relating to exogamy; marrying outside of the limits of one'sown tribe; -- opposed to endogenous.
exogamy: The custom, or tribal law, which prohibits marriage betweenmembers of the same tribe; marriage outside of the tribe; -- opposedto endogamy. Lubbock.
exogen: A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetablekingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c woodbark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, andincreasing, if at all, by the animal addition of a new layer to theoutside next to the bark. The leaves are commonly netted-veined, andthe number of cotyledons is two, or, very rarely, several in a whorl.Cf. Endogen. Gray.
exogenetic: Arising or growing from without; exogenous.
exogenous: Pertaining to, or having the character of, an exogen; -- theopposite of endogenous.
exogyra: A genus of Cretaceous fossil shells allied to oysters.
exolete: Obsolete; out of use; state; insipid. [Obs.]
exolution: See Exsolution. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
exolve: To loose; to pay. [Obs.]
exon: A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England.
exoneration: The act of disburdening, discharging, or freeing morally from acharge or imputation; also, the state of being disburdened or freedfrom a charge.
exonerative: Freeing from a burden or obligation; tending to exonerate.
exonerator: One who exonerates or frees from obligation.
exophthalmia: The protrusion of the eyeball so that the eyelids will notcover it, in consequence of disease.
exophthalmic: Of or pertaining to, or characterized by, exophthalmia.Exophthalmic golter. Same as Rasedow's disease.
exophthalmy: Exophthalmia.
exophyllous: Not sheathed in another leaf.
exoplasm: See Ectosarc, and Ectoplasm.
exopodite: The external branch of the appendages of Crustacea.
exoptable: Very desirable. [Obs.] Bailey.
exoptile: A name given by Lestiboudois to dicotyledons; -- so calledbecause the plumule is naked.
exorable: Capable of being moved by entreaty; pitiful; tender. Milton.
exorate: To persuade, or to gain, by entreaty. [Obs.] Cockeram.
exoration: Entreaty. [R.] Beau. & Fl.
exorbitantly: In an exorbitant, excessive, or irregular manner; enormously.
exorbitate: To go out of the track; to deviate. [Obs.] Bentley.
exorciser: An exorcist.
exordial: Pertaining to the exordium of a discourse
exordium: A beginning; an introduction; especially, the introductory partof a discourse or written composition, which prepares the audiencefor the main subject; the opening part of an oration. "The exordiumof repentance." Jer. Taylor. "Long prefaces and exordiums. " Addison.
exorhiza: A plant Whose radicle is not inclosed or sheathed by thecotyledons or plumule. Gray.
exornation: Ornament; decoration; embellishment. [Obs.]Hyperbolical exornations . . . many much affect. Burton.
exortive: Rising; relating to the east. [R.]
exosculate: To kiss; especially, to kiss repeatedly or fondly. [Obs.]
exoskeletal: Pertaining to the exoskeleton; as exoskeletal muscles.
exoskeleton: The hardened parts of the external integument of an animal,including hair, feathers, nails, horns, scales, etc.,as well as thearmor of armadillos and many reptiles, and the shells or hardenedintegument of numerous invertebrates; external skeleton;dermoskeleton.
exosmose: The passage of gases, vapors, or liquids thought membranes orporous media from within outward, in the phenomena of osmose; --opposed to endosmose. See Osmose.
exosmosis: See Exosmose.
exosmotic: Pertaining to exosmose.
exospore: The extreme outer wall of a spore; the epispore.
exossate: To deprive of bones; to take out the bones of; to bone. [Obs.]Bailey.
exossation: A depriving of bone or of fruit stones. [Obs.] Bacon.
exosseous: Boneless. "Exosseous animals. " Sir T. Browne.
exostome: The small aperture or foremen in the outer coat of the ovule ofa plant.
exostosis: Any protuberance of a bone which is not natural; an excrescenceor morbid enlargement of a bone. Coxe.
exoterics: The public lectures or published writings of Aristotle. SeeEsoterics.
exotery: That which is obvious, public, or common.Dealing out exoteries only to the vulgar. A. Tucker.
exotheca: The tissue which fills the interspaces between the costæ ofmany madreporarian corals, usually consisting of small transverse oroblique septa.
exothecium: The outer coat of the anther.
exothermic: Characterized by, or formed with, evolution of heat; as, anexothermic reaction; -- opposed to endothermic.
exotic: Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous;foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word.Nothing was so splendid and exotic as the ambassador. Evelyn.
exotical: Foreign; not native; exotic. [R.] -- Ex*ot"ic*al*ness, n.
exoticism: The state of being exotic; also, anything foreign, as a word oridiom; an exotic.
expand: To state in enlarged form; to develop; as, to expand anequation. See Expansion, 5.
expander: Anything which causes expansion esp. (Mech.) a tool forstretching open or expanding a tube, etc.
expanding: That expands, or may be expanded; extending; spreading;enlarging. Expanding bit, Expanding drill (Mech.), a bit or drillmade adjustable for holes of various sizes; one which can be expandedin diameter while boring.-- Expanding pulley (Mach.), a pulley so made, as in sections, thatits diameter can be increased or diminished.
expanse: That which is expanded or spread out; a wide extent of space orbody; especially, the arch of the sky. "The green expanse." Savage.Lights . . . high in the expanse of heaven. Milton.The smooth expanse of crystal lakes. Pope.
expansibility: The capacity of being expanded; as, the expansibility of air.
expansible: Capable of being expanded or spread out widely.Bodies are not expansible in proposition to their weight.Ex*pab"si*ble*ness ,n. -Ex*pan"si*bly ,adv.
expansile: Expansible.Ether and alcohol are more expansile than water. Brande & C.
expansion: Enlargement or extension of business transaction; esp.,increase of the circulation of bank notes.
expansive: Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive;of much expanse; wide-extending; as, the expansive force of heat; theexpansive quality of air.A more expansive and generous compassion. Eustace.His forehead was broad and expansive. Prescott.-- Ex*pan"sive*ly, adv. -Ex*pan"sive*ness, n.
expansure: Expanse. [Obs.] "Night's rich expansure."
expatiate: To expand; to spread; to extend; to diffuse; to broaden.Afford art an ample field in which to expatiate itself. Dryden.
expatiation: Act of expatiating.
expatiatory: Expansive; diffusive. [R.]
expatriation: The act of banishing, or the state of banishment; especially,the forsaking of one's own country with a renunciation of allegiance.Expatriation was a heavy ransom to pay for the rights of their mindsand souls. Palfrey.
expect: To wait; to stay. [Obs.] Sandys.
expectable: That may be expected or looked for. Sir T. Browne.
expectant: Waiting in expectation; looking for; (Med.)
expectation: The leaving of the disease principally to the efforts of natureto effect a cure. Expectation of life, the mean or average durationof the life individuals after any specified age.
expectative: Constituting an object of expectation; contingent. Expectativegrace, a mandate given by the pope or a prince appointing a successorto any benefice before it becomes vacant. Foxe.
expectedly: In conformity with expectation. [R.] Walpole.
expecter: One who expects.
expectingly: In state of expectation.
expective: Expectative. [R.] Shipley.
expectorant: Tending to facilitate expectoration or to promote discharges ofmucus, etc., from the lungs or throat.-- n.
expectorate: To eject from the trachea or lungs; to discharge, as phlegm orother matter, by coughing, hawking, and spitting; to spit forth.
expectorative: Same as Expectorant. Harvey.
expede: To expedite; to hasten. [Obs.]
expediate: To hasten; to expedite. [Obs.] "To expediate their business."Sir E. Sandys.
expediential: . Governed by expediency; seeking advantage; as an expedientialpolicy. "Calculating, expediential understanding." Hare.-- Ex*pe`di*en"tial*ly , adv.
expediment: An expedient. [Obs.]A like expediment to remove discontent. Barrow.
expeditate: To deprive of the claws or the balls of the fore feet; as, toexpeditate a dog that he may not chase deer.
expeditely: In expedite manner; expeditiously.
expediteness: Quality of being expedite.
expeditionary: Of or pertaining to an expedition; as, an expeditionary force.
expeditionist: One who goes upon an expedition. [R].
expeditious: Possessed of, or characterized by, expedition, or efficiencyand rapidity in action; performed with, or acting with, expedition;quick; having celerity; speedily; as, an expeditious march ormessenger.-- Ex`pe*di"tious*ly, adv.-- Ex`pe*di"tious*ness, n.
expeditive: Performing with speed. [Obs.] Bacon.
expellable: Capable of being expelled or driven out. "Expellable by heat."Kirwan.
expeller: One who. or that which, expels.
expend: To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; touse up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend;as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor,and thought; to expend hay in feeding cattle, oil in a lamp, water inmechanical operations.If my death might make this island happy . . . I would expend it withall willingness. Shak.
expenditor: A disburser; especially, one of the disbursers of taxes for therepair of sewers. Mozley & W.
expensefull: Full of expense; costly; chargeable. [R.] Sir H. Wotton.-- Ex*pense"ful*ly, adv. [R.] -- Ex*pense"ful*ness, n. [R.]
expenseless: Without cost or expense.
experience table: A table of mortality computed from the experience of one ormore life-insurance companies.
experienced: Taught by practice or by repeated observations; skillful orwise by means of trials, use, or observation; as, an experiencedphysician, workman, soldier; an experienced eye.The ablest and most experienced statesmen. Bancroft.
experient: Experienced. [Obs.]The prince now ripe and full experient. Beau & Fl.
experiential: Derived from, or pertaining to, experience. Coleridge.It is called empirical or experiential . . . because it is divan tous by experience or observation, and not obtained as the result ofinference or reasoning. Sir. W. Hamiltion.-- Ex*pe`ri*en"tial*ly, adv. DR. H. More.
experientialism: The doctrine that experience, either that ourselves or ofothers, is the test or criterion of general knowledge; -- opposed tointuitionists.Experientialism is in short, a philosophical or logical theory, not aphilosophical one. G. C. Robertson.
experientialist: One who accepts the doctrine of experientialism. Also usedadjectively.
experiment: To make experiment; to operate by test or trial; -- often withon, upon, or in, referring to the subject of an experiment; with,referring to the instrument; and by, referring to the means; as, toexperiment upon electricity; he experimented in plowing with ponies,or by steam power.
experimentalist: One who makes experiments; an experimenter. Whaterly.
experimentalize: To make experiments (upon); to experiment. J. S. Mill.
experimentally: By experiment; by experience or trial. J. S. Mill.
experimentarian: Relying on experiment or experience. "an experimentarianphilosopher." Boyle.-- n.
experimentation: The act of experimenting; practice by experiment. J. S. Mill.
experimentative: Experimental; of the nature of experiment. [R.]
experimentator: An experimenter. [R.]
experimenter: One who makes experiments; one skilled in experiments. Faraday.
experimentist: An experimenter.
experrection: A waking up or arousing. [Obs.] Holland
expert: Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; havingfacility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and readyfrom much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expertin chess or archery.A valiant and most expert gentleman. Shak.What practice, howsoe'er expert In fitting aptest words to things . .. Hath power to give thee as thou wert Tennison.
expertly: In a skillful or dexterous manner; adroitly; with readiness andaccuracy.
expertness: Skill derived from practice; readiness; as, expertness inseamanship, or in reasoning.
expetible: Worthy of being wished for; desirable. [Obs.] Puller.
expiable: Capable of being expiated or atoned for; as, an expiableoffense; expiable guilt. Bp. Hall.
expiate: Terminated. [Obs.] Shak.
expiatist: An expiator. [R.]
expiator: One who makes expiation or atonement.
expiatorious: Of an expiatory nature; expiatory. Jer. Taylor.
expiatory: Having power, or intended, to make expiation; atoning; as, anexpiatory sacrifice.
expilation: The act of expilating or stripping off; plunder; pillage.[Obs.]This ravenous expiation of the state. Daniel.
expilator: One who pillages; a plunderer; a pillager. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
expirable: That may expire; capable of being brought to an end.
expirant: One who expires or is expiring.
expiration: The act or process of breathing out, or forcing air from thelungs through the nose or mouth; as, respiration consists ofinspiration and expiration; -- opposed to Ant
expiratory: Pertaining to, or employed in, the expiration or emission ofair from the lungs; as, the expiratory muscles.
expiry: Expiration.He had to leave at the expiry of the term. Lamb.The Parliament . . . now approaching the expiry of its legal term. J.Morley.
expiscate: To fish out; to find out by skill or laborious investigation;to search out. "To expiscate principles." [R.] Nichol.Dr.Burton has with much ingenuity endeavord to expiscate the truthwhich may be involved in them. W. L. Alexander.
expiscation: The act of expiscating; a fishing. [R.] Chapman.
expiscatory: Tending to fish out; searching out [R.] Carlyle.
explain: To give an explanation.
explainable: Capable of being explained or made plain to the understanding;capable of being interpreted. Sir. T. Browne.
explainer: One who explains; an expounder or expositor; a commentator; aninterpreter.
explanate: Spreading or extending outwardly in a flat form.
explanative: Explanatory.
explanatoriness: The quality of being explanatory.
explanatory: Serving to explain; containing explanation; as explanatorynotes. Swift.
expletion: Accomplishment; fulfillment. [Obs.] Killingbeck.
expletive: Filling up; hence, added merely for the purpose of filling up;superfluous. "Expletive imagery." Hallam.Expletive phrases to plump his speech. Barrow.
expletively: In the manner of an expletive.
expletory: Serving to fill up; expletive; superfluous; as, an expletoryword. Bp. Burnet.
explicable: Capable of being explicated; that may be explained or accountedfor; admitting explanation.It is not explicable upon any grounds. Burke.
explicableness: Quality of being explicable.
explicate: Evolved; unfolded. Jer. Taylor.
explicative: Serving to unfold or explain; tending to lay open to theunderstanding; explanatory. Sir W. Hamilton.
explicator: One who unfolds or explains; an expounder; an explainer.
explicatory: Explicative. Barrow.
explicit: A word formerly used (as finis is now) at the conclusion of abook to indicate the end.
explicitly: In an explicit manner; clearly; plainly; without disguise orreservation of meaning; not by inference or implication; as, heexplicitly avows his intention.
explicitness: The quality of being explicit; clearness; directness. Jer.Taylor.
exploit: To utilize; to make available; to get the value or usefulnessout of; as, to exploit a mine or agricultural lands; to exploitpublic opinion. [Recent]
exploitation: The act of exploiting or utilizing. J. D. Whitney.
explorable: That may be explored; as, an explorable region.
explorate: To explore. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne.
exploration: The act of exploring, penetrating, or ranging over for purposesof discovery, especially of geographical discovery; examination; as,the exploration of unknown countries; (Med.)
explorative: Exploratory.
explorator: One who explores; one who examines closely; a searcher.
exploratory: Serving or intended to explore; searching; examining;explorative. Sir H. Wotton.
explorement: The act of exploring; exploration. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
explorer: One who explores; also, an apparatus with which one explores,as a diving bell.
exploring: Employed in, or designed for, exploration. "Exploring parties."Bancroft.
explosive: Driving or bursting out with violence and noise; causingexplosion; as, the explosive force of gunpowder.
explosively: In an explosive manner.
expoliation: See Exspoliation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
expolish: To polish thoroughly. [Obs.] Heywood.
expone: To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil. [Old Eng.& Scotch] Drummond.
exponent: A number, letter, or any quantity written on the right hand ofand above another quantity, and denoting how many times the latter isrepeated as a factor to produce the power indicated;
exponential: Pertaining to exponents; involving variable exponents; as, anexponential expression; exponential calculus; an exponentialfunction. Exponential curve, a curve whose nature is defined by meansof an exponential equation.-- Exponential equation, an equation which contains an exponentialquantity, or in which the unknown quantity enters as an exponent.-- Exponential quantity (Math.), a quantity whose exponent isunknown or variable, as ax.-- Exponential series, a series derived from the development ofexponential equations or quantities.
exportability: The quality or state of being suitable for exportation.To increase the exportability of native goods. J. P. Peters.
exportable: Suitable for exportation; as, exportable products.
exporter: One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to aforeign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer.
exposal: Exposure. Swift.
expose: A formal recital or exposition of facts; exposure, orrevelation, of something which some one wished to keep concealed.
exposedness: The state of being exposed, laid open, or unprotected; as, anexposedness to sin or temptation.
exposer: One who exposes or discloses.
expositive: Serving to explain; expository. Bp. Pearson.
expositor: One who, or that which, expounds or explains; an expounder; acommentator. Bp. Horsley.
expository: Pertaining to, or containing, exposition; serving to explain;explanatory; illustrative; exegetical.A glossary or expository index to the poetical writers. Johnson.
expostulate: To reason earnestly with a person on some impropriety of hisconduct, representing the wrong he has done or intends, and urginghim to make redress or to desist; to remonstrate; -- followed bywith.Men expostulate with erring friends; they bring accusations againstenemies who have done them a wrong. Jowett (Thuc. ).
expostulation: The act of expostulating or reasoning with a person inopposition to some impropriety of conduct; remonstrance; earnest andkindly protest; dissuasion.We must use expostulation kindly. Shak.
expostulator: One who expostulates. Lamb.
expostulatory: Containing expostulation or remonstrance; as, an expostulatorydiscourse or letter.
exposture: Exposure. [Obs.] Shak.
exposure: The exposing of a sensitized plate to the action of light.
expounder: One who expounds or explains; an interpreter.
express rifle: A sporting rifle for use at short ranges, employing a largecharge of powder and a light (short) bullet, giving a high initialvelocity and consequently a flat trajectory. It is usually ofmoderately large caliber.
express train: Formerly, a railroad train run expressly for the occasion; aspecial train; now, a train run at express or special speed andmaking few stops.
expressage: The charge for carrying a parcel by express.
expressible: Capable of being expressed, squeezed out, shown, represented,or uttered.-- Express"i*bly,adv.
expression: The representation of any quantity by its appropriatecharacters or signs. Past expression, Beyond expression, beyond thepower of description. "Beyond expression bright." Milton.
expressional: Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividlyrepresenting or suggesting an idea sentiment. Fized. Hall. Ruskin.
expressionless: Destitute of expression.
expressly: In an express manner; in direct terms; with distinct purpose;particularly; as, a book written expressly for the young.The word of the Lord came expressly unto Ezekiel. Ezek. i. 3.I am sent expressly to your lordship. Shak.
expressman: A person employed in the express business; also, the driver ofa job wagon. W. D. Howells.
expressness: The state or quality of being express; definiteness. [Obs.]Hammond.
expressure: The act of expressing; expression; utterance; representation.[Obs.]An operation more divine Than breath or pen can give expressure to.Shak.
exprobrate: To charge upon with reproach; to upbraid. [R.] Sir T. Browne.
exprobration: Reproachful accusation; upbraiding. [Obs.]A fearful exprobration of our unworthiness. Jer. Taylor.
expropriate: To put out of one's possession; to surrender the ownership of;also, to deprive of possession or proprietary rights. Boyle.Expropriate these [bad landlords] as the monks were expropriated byAct of Parliament. M. Arnold.
expropriation: The act of expropriating; the surrender of a claim to exclusiveproperty; the act of depriving of ownership or proprietary rights. W.Montagu.The expropriation of bad landlords. M. Arnold.
expugn: To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, toexpugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments.
expugnable: Capable of being expugnded.
expugnation: The act of taking by assault; conquest. [R.] Sandys.
expugner: One who expugns.
expulse: To drive out; to expel. [Obs.]If charity be thus excluded and expulsed. Milton.
expulser: An expeller. [Obs.] Cotgrave.
expulsive: Having the power of driving out or away; serving to expel.The expulsive power of a new affection. Chalmers.
expunction: The act of expunging or erasing; the condition of beingexpunged. Milton.
expurgate: To purify; to clear from anything noxious, offensive, orerroneous; to cleanse; to purge; as, to expurgate a book.
expurgation: The act of expurgating, purging, or cleansing; purificationfrom anything noxious, offensive, sinful, or erroneous. Milton.
expurgator: One who expurgates or purifies.
expurgatorial: Tending or serving to expurgate; expurgatory. Milman.
expurgatorious: Expurgatory. [Obs.] "Expurgatorious indexes." Milton.
expurgatory: Serving to purify from anything noxious or erroneous;cleansing; purifying. "Expurgatory animadversions." Sir T. Browne.Expurgatory Index. See Index Expurgatorius, under Index.
expurge: To purge away. [Obs.] Milton.
exquire: To search into or out. [Obs.] Chapman.
exquisite: One who manifests an exquisite attention to externalappearance; one who is overnice in dress or ornament; a fop; a dandy.
exquisitely: In an exquisite manner or degree; as, lace exquisitely wrought.To a sensitive observer there was something exquisitely painful init. Hawthorne.
exquisiteness: Quality of being exquisite.
exquisitive: Eager to discover or learn; curious. [Obs.] Todd.-- Ex*quis"i*tive*ly, adv. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.
exsanguine: Bloodless. [R.]
exsanguineous: Destitute of blood; anæmic; exsanguious.
exsanguinity: Privation or destitution of blood; -- opposed to plethora.Dunglison.
exsanguinous: See Exsanguious.
exsanguious: Destitute of true, or red, blood, as insects.
exscind: To cut off; to separate or expel from union; to extirpate.Barrow.The second presbytery of Philadelphia was also exscinded by thatAssembly. Am. Cyc.
exscribe: To copy; to transcribe. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
exscript: A copy; a transcript. [Obs.] Bailey.
exscriptural: Not in accordance with the doctrines of Scripture;unscriptural.
exscutellate: Without, or apparently without, a scutellum; -- said of certaininsects.
exsect: The removal by operation of a portion of a limb; particularly,the removal of a portion of a bone in the vicinity of a joint; theact or process of cutting out.
exsertile: Capable of being thrust out or protruded. J. Fleming.
exsiccant: Having the quality of drying up; causing a drying up.-- n. (Med.)
exsiccate: To exhaust or evaporate moisture from; to dry up. Sir T.Browne.
exsiccation: The act of operation of drying; evaporation or expulsion ofmoisture; state of being dried up; dryness. Sir T. Browne.
exsiccative: Tending to make dry; having the power of drying.
exsiccator: An apparatus for drying substances or preserving them frommoisture; a desiccator; also, less frequently, an agent employed toabsorb moisture, as calcium chloride, or concentrated sulphuric acid.
exsiliency: A leaping out. [R.] Latham.
exsolution: Relaxation. [R.] Richardson (Dict. ).
exspoliation: Spoliation. [Obs. or R.] Bp. Hall.
exspuition: A discharge of saliva by spitting. [R.] E. Darwin.
exsputory: Spit out, or as if spit out. "Exsputory lines." Cowper.
exstipulate: Having no stipules. Martyn.
exstrophy: The eversion or turning out of any organ, or of its innersurface; as, exstrophy of the eyelid or of the bladder.
exsuccous: Destitute of juice; dry; sapless. Latham.
exsuction: The act of sucking out.
exsudation: Exudation.
exsufflate: To exorcise or renounce by blowing.
exsufflation: A kind of exorcism by blowing with the breath. Jer. Taylor.
exsufflicate: Empty; frivolous. [A Shakespearean word only once used.]Such exsufflicate and blown surmises. Shak. (Oth. iii. 3, 182).
exsuscitate: To rouse; to excite. [Obs.] Johnson.
exsuscitation: A stirring up; a rousing. [Obs.] Hallywell.
extacy: See Ecstasy. [Obs.]
extance: Outward existence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
extancy: The state of rising above others; a projection. Evelyn. Boyle.
extasy: See Ecstasy, n. & v. t.
extatic: See Ecstatic, a.
extemporal: Extemporaneous; unpremeditated. [Obs.] B. Jonson.-- Ex*tem"po*ral*ly, adv. [Obs.]
extemporanean: Extemporaneous. [Obs] Burton.
extemporaneous: Composed, performed, or uttered on the spur of the moment, orwithout previous study; unpremeditated; off-hand; extempore;extemporary; as, an extemporaneous address or production.-- Ex*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.-- Ex*tem`po*ra"ne*ous*ness,n.
extemporarily: Extemporaneously.
extempore: Without previous study or meditation; without preparation; onthe spur of the moment; suddenly; extemporaneously; as, to write orspeak extempore. Shak.-- a.
extemporiness: The quality of being done or devised extempore [Obs.] Johnson.
extemporization: The act of extemporizing; the act of doing anything extempore.
extemporize: To speak extempore; especially, to discourse without specialpreparation; to make an offhand address.
extemporizer: One who extemporizes.
extend: To value, as lands taken by a writ of extent in satisfaction ofa debt; to assign by writ of extent. Extended letter (Typog.), aletter, or style of type, having a broader face than is usual for aletter or type of the same height.
extendant: Displaced. Ogilvie.
extendedly: In an extended manner.
extender: One who, or that which, extends or stretches anything.
extendible: Liable to be taken by a writ of extent.
extendlessness: Unlimited extension. [Obs.]An . . . extendlessness of excursions. Sir. M. Hale.
extense: Outreaching; expansive; extended, superficially or otherwise.Men and gods are too extense; Could you slacken and condense Emerson.
extensibility: The quality of being extensible; the capacity of beingextended; as, the extensibility of a fiber, or of a plate of metal.
extensible: Capable of being extended, whether in length or breadth;susceptible of enlargement; extensible; extendible; -- the oppositeof contractible or compressible. "An extensible membrane" Holder.
extensibleness: Extensibility.
extensile: Suited for, or capable of, extension; extensible. Owen.
extension: That property of a body by which it occupies a portion ofspace.
extensional: Having great extent.
extensionist: One who favors or advocates extension.
extensively: To a great extent; widely; largely; as, a story is extensivelycirculated.
extensiveness: The state of being extensive; wideness; largeness; extent;diffusiveness.
extensometer: An instrument for measuring the extension of a body, especiallyfor measuring the elongation of bars of iron, steel, or othermaterial, when subjected to a tensile force.
extensor: A muscle which serves to extend or straighten any part of thebody, as an arm or a finger; -- opposed to flexor.
extensure: Extension. [R.] Drayton.
extent: Extended. [Obs.] Spenser.
extenuate: To become thinner; to make excuses; to advance palliatingconsiderations. Burke.
extenuation: The act of axtenuating or the state of being extenuated; theact of making thin, slender, or lean, or of palliating; diminishing,or lessening; palliation, as of a crime; mitigation, as ofpunishment.To listen . . . to every extenuation of what is evil. I. Taylor.
extenuator: One who extenuates.
extenuatory: Tending to extenuate or palliate. Croker.
exteriority: Surface; superficies; externality.
exteriorly: Outwardly; externally; on the exterior. Shak.They are exteriorly lifelike. J. H. Morse.
exterminate: To eliminate, as unknown quantities. [R.]
extermination: Elimination. [R.]
exterminator: One who, or that which, exterminates. Buckle.
exterminatory: Of or pertaining to extermination; tending to exterminate."Exterminatory war." Burke.
extermine: To exterminate; to destroy. [Obs.] Shak.
extern: External; outward; not inherent. [Obs.] Shak.
external: Away from the mesial plane of the body; lateral. Externalangles. (Geom.) See under Angle.
externalism: That philosophy or doctrine which recognizes or deals only withexternals, or objects of sense perception; positivism; phenomenalism.
externalistic: Pertaining to externalism North Am. Rev.
externality: State of being external; exteriority; (Metaph.)
externalize: To make external; to manifest by outward form.Thought externalizes itself in language. Soyce.
externally: In an external manner; outwardly; on the outside; inappearance; visibly.
externe: An officer in attendance upon a hospital, but not residing init; esp., one who cares for the out-patients.
exterraneous: Foreign; belonging to, or coming from, abroad.
exterritorial: Beyond the territorial limits; foreign to, or exempt from, theterritorial jurisdiction.-- Ex*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#),adv.
extersion: The act of wiping or rubbing out. [Obs.]
extill: To drop or distill. [Obs.] Johnson.
extillation: Distillation. [Obs.]An exudation or extillation of petrifying juices. Derham.
extimulate: To stimulate. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
extimulation: Stimulation. [Obs.]Things insipid, and without any extimulation. Bacon.
extinct: To cause to be extinct. [Obs.] Shak.
extine: The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants.
extinguishable: Capable of being quenched, destroyed, or suppressed.
extinguisher: One who, or that which, extinguishes; esp., a hollow cone orother device for extinguishing a flame, as of a torch or candle.
extinguishment: The annihilation or extinction of a right or obligation.Abbott.
extirp: To extirpate. [Obs.]It is impossible to extirp it quite, friar. Shak.
extirpable: Capable of being extirpated or eradicated; as, an extirpableplant. Evelyn.
extirpate: To pluck up by the stem or root; to root out; to eradicate,literally or figuratively; to destroy wholly; as, to extirpate weeds;to extirpate a tumor; to extirpate a sect; to extirpate error orheresy.
extirpation: The act of extirpating or rooting out, or the state of beingextirpated; eradication; excision; total destruction; as, theextirpation of weeds from land, of evil from the heart, of a race ofmen, of heresy.
extirpative: Capable of rooting out, or tending to root out. Cheyne.
extirpator: One who extirpates or roots out; a destroyer.
extirpatory: Extirpative.
extirper: Extirpator. [Obs.] Bacon.
extispicious: Relating to the inspection of entrails for prognostication.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
extogenous: Exogenous.
extoller: One who extols; one who praises.
extolment: Praise. [Obs.] Shak.
extorsive: Serving or tending to extort. [R.] Johnson.-- Ex*tor"sive*ly, adv. [R.]
extort: To get by the offense of extortion. See Extortion, 2.
extorter: One who practices extortion.
extortion: The offense committed by an officer who corruptly claims andtakes, as his fee, money, or other thing of value, that is not due,or more than is due, or before it is due. Abbott.
extortionary: Extortionate.
extortionate: Characterized by extortion; oppressive; hard.
extortioner: , One who practices extortion.
extortious: Extortionate. [Obs.] "Extortious cruelties." Bp. Hall --Ex*tor"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.] Bacon.
extra: Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional;supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work;extra pay. "By working extra hours." H. Spencer.
extra-: A Latin preposition, denoting beyond, outside of; -- often usedin composition as a prefix signifying outside of, beyond, besides, orin addition to what is denoted by the word to which it is prefixed.
extra-ocular: Inserted exterior to the eyes; -- said of the antennæ ofcertain insects.
extra-official: Not prescribed by official duty.
extra-uterine: Outside of the uterus, or womb. Extra-uterine pregnancy (Med.),a condition of pregnancy in which the fetus is not in the uterus, butin the Fallopian tube or in the abdominal cavity.
extraarticular: Situated outside of a joint.
extrabranchial: Outside of the branchial arches; -- said of the cartilages thusplaced in some fishes.
extracapsular: Situated outside of a capsule, esp. outside the capsularligament of a joint.
extract: A solid preparation obtained by evaporating a solution of adrug, etc., or the fresh juice of a plant; -- distinguished from anabstract. See Abstract, n., 4.
extractiform: Having the form, appearance, or nature, of an extract.
extractor: One who, or that which, extracts; as:(a) (Surg.) A forceps or instrument for extracting substances.(b) (Breech-loading Firearms) A device for withdrawing a cartridge orspent cartridge shell from the chamber of the barrel.
extradictionary: Consisting not in words, but in realities. [Obs.]Of these extradictionary and real fallacies, Aristotle and logiciansmake in number six. Sir T. Browne.
extradite: To deliver up by one government to another, as a fugitive fromjustice. See Extradition.
extradition: The surrender or delivery of an alleged criminal by one Stateor sovereignty to another having jurisdiction to try charge.
extrados: The exterior curve of an arch; esp., the upper curved face ofthe whole body of voussoirs. See Intrados.
extradotal: Forming no part of the dowry; as, extradotal property.
extrafoliaceous: Away from the leaves, or inserted in a different place fromthem; as, extrafoliaceous prickles. Loudon.
extraforaneous: Pertaining to that which is out of doors. "Extr occupations."Cowper.
extrageneous: Belonging to another race or kind.
extrajudicial: Out of or beyond the proper authority of a court or judge;beyond jurisdiction; not legally required. "An extrajudicialopinion." Hallam.-- Ex`tra*ju*di"cial*ly, adv.
extrajudicial conveyance: A conveyance, as by deed, effected by the act of the partiesand not involving, as in the fine and recovery, judicial proceedings.
extralimitary: Being beyond the limit or bounds; as, extraliminary land.Mitford.
extralogical: Lying outside of the domain of logic.-- Ex`tra*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
extramission: A sending out; emission. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
extramundane: Beyond the material world. "An extramundane being." Bp.Warburton.
extramural: Outside of the walls, as of a fortified or walled city.
extraneity: State of being without or beyond a thing; foreignness. [Obs.]
extraneous: Not belonging to, or dependent upon, a thing; without or beyonda thing; not essential or intrinsic; foreign; as, to separate goldfrom extraneous matter.Nothing is admitted extraneous from the indictment. Landor.-- Ex*tra"ne*ous*ly, adv.
extraordinarily: In an extraordinary manner or degree.
extraordinariness: The quality of being extraordinary. [R.] Gov. of the Tongue.
extraordinary: That which is extraordinary; -- used especially in the plural;as, extraordinaries excepted, there is nothing to prevent success.Their extraordinary did consist especially in the matter of prayersand devotions. Jer. Taylor.
extraparochial: Beyond the limits of a parish.-- Ex`tra*pa*ro"chi*al*ly, adv.
extraphysical: Not subject to physical laws or methods.
extraprofessional: Foreign to a profession; not within the ordinary limits ofprofessional duty or business.
extraprovincial: Not within of pertaining to the same province or jurisdiction.Ayliffe.
extraregular: Not comprehended within a rule or rules. Jer. Taylor.
extrastapedial: Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which, inmany animals, projects beyond the connection with the stapes.-- n.
extraterritorial: Beyond the limits of a territory or particular jurisdiction;exterritorial.-- Ex`tra*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#), adv.
extraterritoriality: The state of being beyond the limits of a particular territory;esp. (Internat. Law),
extratropical: Beyond or outside of the tropics. Whewell.
extraught: Extracted; descended. [Obs.]Knowing whence thou art extraught Shak.
extravagancy: Extravagance.
extravagant: Certain constitutions or decretal epistles, not at firstincluded with others, but subsequently made a part of the canon law.
extravagantly: In an extravagant manner; wildly; excessively; profusely.
extravagantness: The state of being extravagant or in excess; excess;extravagance.
extravagate: To rove. Bp. Warburton.
extravagation: A wandering beyond limits; excess. [Obs.] Smollett.
extravasate: To force or let out of the proper vessels or arteries, asblood.
extravasation: The act of forcing or letting out of its proper vessels orducts, as a fluid; effusion; as, an extravasation of blood after arupture of the vessels.
extravenate: Let out of the veins. [Obs.] "Extravenate blood." Glanvill.
extraversion: The act of throwing out; the state of being turned or thrownout. [Obs.] Boyle.
extreat: Extraction. [Obs.] Spenser.
extreme: Extended or contracted as much as possible; -- said ofintervals; as, an extreme sharp second; an extreme flat forth.Extreme and mean ratio (Geom.), the relation of a line and itssegments when the line is so divided that the whole is to the greatersegment is to the less.-- Extreme distance. (Paint.) See Distance., n., 6.-- Extreme unction. See under Unction.
extremeless: Having no extremes; infinite.
extremely: In an extreme manner or state; in the utmost degree; to theutmost point; exceedingly; as, extremely hot or cold.
extremist: A supporter of extreme doctrines or practice; one who holdsextreme opinions.
extremity: One of locomotive appendages of an animal; a limb; a leg or anarm of man.
extricable: Capable of being extricated. Sir W. Jones.
extrinsic: Attached partly to an organ or limb and partly to some otherpartintrinsic.
extrinsical: Extrinsic.-- Ex*trin"sic*al*ly(#), adv.
extroitive: Seeking or going out after external objects. [R.]Their natures being almost wholly extroitive. Coleridge.
extrorsal: Extrorse.
extrorse: Facing outwards, or away from the axis of growth; -- said esp.of anthers occupying the outer side of the filament.
extroversion: The condition of being turned wrong side out; as, extroversionof the bladder. Dunglison.
extruct: To construct. [Obs.] Byrom.
extruction: A building up; construction. [Obs.] Cockeram.
extructive: Constructive. [Obs.] Fulke.
extructor: A builder. [Obs.] Bailey.
extrude: To thrust out; to force, press, or push out; to expel; to driveoff or away. "Parentheses thrown into notes or extruded to themargin." Coleridge.
extrusion: The act of thrusting or pushing out; a driving out; expulsion.
extrusive: Forced out at the surface; as, extrusive rocks; -- contrastedwith intrusive.
extuberance: A swelling or rising; protuberance. [R.] Moxon.
extuberancy: Extuberance. [R.]
extuberant: Swollen out; protuberant. [R.] "Extuberant lips." Gayton.
extuberate: To swell out. [Obs.] Cockeram.
extuberation: Protuberance. [Obs.] Farindon.
extumescence: A swelling or rising. [R.] Cotgrave.
exuberance: The state of being exuberant; an overflowing quantity; acopious or excessive production or supply; superabundance; richness;as, an exuberance of joy, of fancy, or of foliage.
exuberancy: , . Exuberance.
exuberant: Characterized by abundance or superabundance; plenteous; rich;overflowing; copious or excessive in production; as, exuberantgoodness; an exuberant intellect; exuberant foliage. "Exuberantspring." Thomson.-- Ex*u"ber*ant*ly, adv.
exuberate: To abound; to be in great abundance. [Obs.] Boyle.
exuccous: See Exsuccous. [Obs.]
exudate: To exude. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
exudation: The act of exuding; sweating; a discharge of humors, moisture,juice, or gum, as through pores or incisions; also, the substanceexuded.Resins, a class of proximate principles, existing in almost allplants and appearing on the external surface of many of them in theform of exudations. Am. Cyc.
exude: To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or otherliquid matter; to give out.Our forests exude turpentine in . . . abundance. Dr. T. Dwight.
exulcerate: Very sore; ulcerated. [Obs.] Bacon.
exulcerative: Tending to cause ulcers; exulceratory. Holland.
exulceratory: Having a tendency to form ulcers; rendering ulcerous.
exult: To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; torejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart."An exulting countenance." Bancroft.The dumb shall sing, the lame his crutch forego, And leap exultinglike the bounding roe. Pope.
exultant: Inclined to exult; characterized by, or expressing, exultation;rejoicing triumphantly.Break away, exultant, from every defilement. I. Tay;or.
exultation: The act of exulting; lively joy at success or victory, or atany advantage gained; rapturous delight; triumph.His bosom swelled with exultation. Prescott.
exulting: Rejoicing triumphantly or exceedingly; exultant.-- Ex*ult"ing*ly, adv.
exundate: To overflow; to inundate. [Obs.] Bailey.
exundation: An overflow, or overflowing abundance. [R.] Ray.
exungulate: To pare off, as nails, the hoof, etc. [R.]
exuperable: Surmountable; superable. [Obs.] Johnson.
exuperance: Superiority; superfluity. [Obs.] Sir K. Digby.
exuperant: Surpassing; exceeding; surmounting. [Obs.]
exuperate: To excel; to surmount. [Obs.]
exuperation: The act of rising or coming into view. [Obs.] Baxter.
exurgent: Arising; coming to light. [Obs.]
exuscitate: See Exsuscitate [Obs.] T. Adams.
exustion: The act or operation of burning up. Bailey.
exutory: An issue.
exuvia: n. sing. of Exuviæ.
exuviability: Capability of shedding the skin periodically. Craig.
exuviable: Capable of being cast off in the form of exuviæ.
exuviae: Cast skins, shells, or coverings of animals; any parts ofanimals which are shed or cast off, as the skins of snakes, theshells of lobsters, etc.
exuvial: Of or pertaining to exuviæ. "Exuvial layers." "Exuvialdeposits."
exuviate: To shed an old covering or condition preliminary to taking on anew one; to molt.There is reason to suppose that very old crayfish do not exuviateevery year. Huxley.
exuviation: The rejecting or casting off of some part, more particularly,the outer cuticular layer, as the shells of crustaceans, skins ofsnakes, etc.; molting; ecdysis.
ey: An island. [Obs.]
eyalet: Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces ofthe Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet.
eyas: A nesting or unfledged Lird; in falconry, a young hawk from thenest, not able to pr Shak J. H. Walsh
eyasmusket: An unfledged or young male sparrow hawk. [Obs.] Shak.
eye: A brood; as, an eye of pheasants.
eye opener: That which makes the eyes open, as startling news oroccurrence, or (U. S. Slang), a drink of liquor, esp. the first onein the morning.
eye-minded: Having one's mental imagery prevailingly of the visual type;having one's thoughts and memories mainly in the form of visualimages. -- Eye"-mind`ed*ness, n.
eyeball: The ball or globe of the eye.
eyebar: A bar with an eye at one or both ends.
eyebeam: A glance of the eye. Shak.
eyebolt: A bolt which a looped head, or an opening in the head.
eyebright: A small annual plant (Euphrasia officinalis), formerly muchused as a remedy for diseases of the eye.
eyebrow: The brow or hairy arch above the eye. Shak.
eyecup: A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fitthe orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquidremedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass.
eyed: Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; assharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed.
eyedrop: A tear. [Poetic] Shak.
eyeflap: A blinder on a horse's bridle.
eyeful: Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable. [Obs.]"Eyeful trophies." Chapman.
eyeglance: A glance of eye.
eyehole: A circular opening to recive a hook, cord, ring, or rope; aneyelet.
eyeless: Without eyes; blind. "Eyeless rage." Shak.
eyeleteer: A small, sharp-pointed instrument used in piercing eyeletholes; a stiletto.
eyelid: The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with whichan animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure.
eyen: Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.
eyepiece: The lens, or combination of lenses, at the eye end of atelescope or other optical instrument, through which the image formedby the mirror or object glass is viewed. Collimating eyepiece. Seeunder Collimate.-- Negative, or Huyghenian, eyepiece, an eyepiece consisting of twoplano-convex lenses with their curved surfaces turned toward theobject glass, and separated from each other by about half the sum oftheir focal distances, the image viewed by the eye being formedbetween the two lenses. it was devised by Huyghens, who applied it tothe telescope. Campani applied it to the microscope, whence it issometimes called Campani's eyepiece.-- Positive eyepiece, an eyepiece consisting of two plano-convexlenses placed with their curved surfaces toward each other, andseparated by a distance somewhat less than the focal distance of theone nearest eye, the image of the object viewed being beyond bothlenses; -- called also, from the name of the inventor, Ramsden'seyepiece.-- terrestrial, or Erecting eyepiece, an eyepiece used in telescopesfor viewing terrestrial objects, consisting of three, or usuallyfour, lenses, so arranged as to present the image of the objectviewed in an erect position.
eyer: One who eyes another. Gayton.
eyereach: The range or reach of the eye; eyeshot. "A seat in eyereach ofhim." B. Jonson.
eyesalve: Ointment for the eye.
eyeservant: A servant who attends faithfully to his duty only when watched.
eyeservice: Service performed only under inspection, or the eye of anemployer.Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers. Col. iii. 22.
eyeshot: Range, reach, or glance of the eye; view; sight; as, to be outof eyeshot. Dryden.
eyesight: Sight of the eye; the sense of seeing; view; observation.Josephus sets this down from his own eyesight. Bp. Wilkins.
eyesore: Something offensive to the eye or sight; a blemish.Mordecai was an eyesore to Haman. L'Estrange.
eyestalk: One of the movable peduncles which, in the decapod Crustacea,bear the eyes at the tip.
eyestone: Eye agate. See under Eye.
eyestring: The tendon by which the eye is moved. Shak.
eyet: An island. See Eyot.
eyetooth: A canine tooth of the upper jaw. See Teeth. To cut one'seyeteeth, to become acute or knowing. [Colloq.]
eyewash: See Eyewater.
eyewater: A wash or lotion for application to the eyes.
eyewink: A wink; a token. Shak.
eyewinker: An eyelash. [A child's word.]
eyewitness: One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view anything.We . . . were eyewitnesses of his majesty. 2 Pet. i. 16.
eyghen: Eyes. [Obs.] Chaucer.
eyght: An island. See Eyot.
eyle: To ail. [Obs.] Chaucer.
eyliad: See Eiliad.
eyot: A little island in a river or lake. See Ait. [Written also ait,ayt, eey, eyet, and eyght.] Blackstone.
eyr: Air. [Obs.] Chaucer.
eyra: A wild cat (Felis eyra) ranging from southern Brazil to Texas.It is reddish yellow and about the size of the domestic cat, but witha more slender body and shorter legs.
eyre: A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre(or in itinere).
eyren: See Ey, an egg.
eysell: Same as Eisel. [Obs.] Shak.
f: .
fabaceous: Having the nature of a bean; like a bean.
fabella: One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles ofthe femur, in some mammals.
fabian: Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general,Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding adecisive contest. Fabian policy, a policy like that of FabiusMaximus, who, by carefully avoiding decisive contests, foiledHannibal, harassing his army by marches, countermarches, andambuscades; a policy of delays and cautions.
fable: To compose fables; hence, to write or speak fiction ; to writeor utter what is not true. "He Fables not." Shak.Vain now the tales which fabling poets tell. Prior.He fables, yet speaks truth. M. Arnold.
fabler: A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths orfalsehoods. Br. Hall.
fabliau: One of the metrical tales of the Trouvères, or early poets ofthe north of France.
fabric: To frame; to built; to construct. [Obs.] "Fabric theirmansions." J. Philips.
fabricant: One who fabricates; a manufacturer. Simmonds.
fabricator: One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes.The fabricator of the works of Ossian. Mason.
fabricatress: A woman who fabricates.
fabrile: Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.;as, fabrile skill.
fabulist: One who invents or writes fables.
fabulize: To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions. G. S. Faber.
fac: A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, atthe commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.Brande & C.
facade: The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having somearchitectural pretensions. Thus a church is said to have its facadeunfinished, though the interior may be in use.
face: Ten degrees in extent of a sign of the zodiac. Chaucer.
faced: Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced,two-faced.
facet: A smooth circumscribed surface; as, the articular facet of abone.
facete: Facetious; witty; humorous. [Archaic] "A facete discourse."Jer. Taylor."How to interpose" with a small, smart remark, sentiment facete, orunctuous anecdote. Prof. Wilson.-- Fa*cete"ly, adv.-- Fa*cete"ness, n.
faceted: Having facets.
facetiae: Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merryconceits.
facette: See Facet, n.
facework: The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall orbuilding; facing.
facia: See Fascia.
facial: Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, ornerve.-- Fa"cial*ly, adv. Facial angle (Anat.), the angle, in a skull,included between a straight line (ab, in the illustrations), from themost prominent part of the forehead to the front efge of the upperjaw bone, and another (cd) from this point to the center of theexternal auditory opening. See Gnathic index, under Gnathic.
faciend: The multiplicand. See Facient,
facies: The general aspect or habit of a species, or group of species,esp. with reference to its adaptation to its environment.
facilitate: To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty orimpediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the executionof a task.To invite and facilitate that line of proceeding which the times callfor. I. Taylor.
facilitation: The act of facilitating or making easy.
facing: The finishing of any face of a wall with material differentfrom that of which it is chiefly composed, or the coating or materialso used.
facingly: In a facing manner or position.
facinorous: Atrociously wicked. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.-- Fa*cin"o*rous*ness, n. [Obs.]
facound: Speech; eloquence. [Obs.]Her facound eke full womanly and plain. Chaucer.
facsimile: A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so asto give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy orlikeness. Facsimile telegraph, a telegraphic apparatus reproducingmessages in autograph.
faction: One of the divisions or parties of charioteers (distinguishedby their colors) in the games of the circus.
factionary: Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides. [Obs.]Always factionary on the party of your general. Shak.
factioner: One of a faction. Abp. Bancroft.
factionist: One who promotes faction.
factitious: Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature;artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial orconventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; notnatural; as, factitious cinnabar or jewels; a factitious taste.-- Fac-ti"tious*ly, adv.-- Fac*ti"tious-ness, n.He acquires a factitious propensity, he forms an incorrigible habit,of desultory reading. De Quincey.
factitive: Pertaining to that relation which is proper when the act, as ofa transitive verb, is not merely received by an object, but producessome change in the object, as when we say, He made the water wine.Sometimes the idea of activity in a verb or adjective involves in ita reference to an effect, in the way of causality, in the activevoice on the immediate objects, and in the passive voice on thesubject of such activity. This second object is called the factitiveobject. J. W. Gibbs.
factive: Making; having power to make. [Obs.] "You are . . . factive,not destructive." Bacon.
facto: In fact; by the act or fact. De facto. (Law) See De facto.
factor: One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute;especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transactsbusiness for others in commission; a commission merchant orconsignee. He may be a home factor or a foreign factor. He may buyand sell in his own name, and he is intrusted with the possession andcontrol of the goods; and in these respects he differs from a broker.Story. Wharton.My factor sends me word, a merchant's fled That owes me for a hundredtun of wine. Marlowe.
factorage: The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for hisservices; -- called also a commission.
factoress: A factor who is a woman. [R.]
factorial: Related to factorials.
factoring: The act of resolving into factors.
factorship: The business of a factor.
factotum: A person employed to do all kinds of work or business. B.Jonson.
factual: Relating to, or containing, facts. [R.]
factum: A man's own act and deed; particularly:(a) (Civil Law) Anything stated and made certain.(b) (Testamentary Law) The due execution of a will, includingeverything necessary to its validity.
facture: An invoice or bill of parcels.
faculae: Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun whichare brighter than the other parts of the photosphere. They aregenerally seen in the neighborhood of the dark spots, and aresupposed to be elevated portions of the photosphere. Newcomb.
facular: Of or pertaining to the faculæ. R. A. Proctor.
facultative: Having the power to live under different conditions; as, afacultative parasite, a plant which is normally saprophytic, butwhich may exist wholly or in part as a parasite; -- opposed toobligate.
faculty: The body of person to whom are intrusted the government andinstruction of a college or university, or of one of its departments;the president, professors, and tutors in a college. Dean of faculty.See under Dean.-- Faculty of advocates. (Scot.) See under Advocate.
facund: Eloquent. [Archaic]
facundious: Eloquement; full of words. [Archaic]
facundity: Eloquence; readiness of speech. [Archaic]
fad: A hobby ; freak; whim.-- Fad"dist, n.It is your favorite fad to draw plans. G. Eliot.
fadaise: A vapid or meaningless remark; a commonplace; nonsense.
faddle: To trifle; to toy.-- v. t.
fade: Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace. [R.] "Passages that aresomewhat fade." Jeffrey.His masculine taste gave him a sense of something fade and ludicrous.De Quincey.
faded: That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim. "Hisfaded cheek." Milton.Where the faded moon Made a dim silver twilight. Keats.
fadedly: In a faded manner.A dull room fadedly furnished. Dickens.
fadeless: Not liable to fade; unfading.
fader: Father. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fadge: To fit; to suit; to agree.They shall be made, spite of antipathy, to fadge together. Milton.Well, Sir, how fadges the new design Wycherley.
fading: Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor.-- n.
fadme: A fathom. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fady: Faded. [R.] Shenstone.
faecal: See Fecal.
faeces: Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion ordistillation. [Written also feces.]
faecula: See Fecula.
faery: Fairy. [Archaic] Spenser.
faffle: To stammer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
fag: A knot or coarse part in cloth. [Obs.]
fagging: Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another atan English school.
fagot: A bassoon. See Fagotto.
fagotto: The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts forease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.
faham: The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands ofBourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinesetea.
fahlband: A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides.Raymond.
fahlunite: A hydration of iolite.
fahrenheit: Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit inthe graduation of his thermometer; of or relating to Fahrenheit'sthermometric scale.-- n.
faience: Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color.
failance: Fault; failure; omission. [Obs.] Bp. Fell.
faille: A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.
fain: With joy; gladly; -- with wold.He would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine dideat. Luke xv. 16.Fain Would I woo her, yet I dare not. Shak.
faineant: Doing nothing; shiftless.-- n.
faineant deity: A deity recognized as real but conceived as not acting in humanaffairs, hence not worshiped.
faint: The act of fainting, or the state of one who has fainted; aswoon. [R.] See Fainting, n.The saint, Who propped the Virgin in her faint. Sir W. Scott.
fainting: Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest ofthe blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, therespiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak. Fainting fit, afainting or swoon; syncope. [Colloq.]
faintish: Slightly faint; somewhat faint.-- Faint"ish*ness, n.
faintling: Timorous; feeble-minded. [Obs.] "A fainting, silly creature."Arbuthnot.
faintly: In a faint, weak, or timidmanner.
faints: The impure spirit which comes over first and last in thedistillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints,and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints. Thiscrude spirit is much impregnated with fusel oil. Ure.
fainty: Feeble; languid. [R.] Dryden.
fair: Without sudden change of direction or curvature; smooth;fowing; -- said of the figure of a vessel, and of surfaces, waterlines, and other lines.
fair catch: A catch made by a player on side who makes a prescribed signalthat he will not attempt to advance the ball when caught. He must notthen be interfered with.
fair-haired: Having fair or light-colored hair.
fair-leader: A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging orfor any rope.
fair-minded: Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest.-- Fair"*mind`ed*ness, n.
fair-natured: Well-disposed. "A fair-natured prince." Ford.
fair-spoken: Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil;courteous; plausible. "A marvelous fair-spoken man." Hooker.
fair-world: State of prosperity. [Obs.]They think it was never fair-world with them since. Milton.
fairhood: Fairness; beauty. [Obs.] Foxe.
fairily: In the manner of a fairy.Numerous as shadows haunting fairily The brain. Keats.
fairing: A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair. Gay.Fairing box, a box receiving savings or small sums of money. HannahMore.
fairish: Tolerably fair. [Colloq.] W. D. Howells.
fairness: The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as ofthe skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.
fairway: The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vesselsenter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept openand unobstructed for the passage of vessels. Totten. the rough.
fairyland: The imaginary land or abode of fairies.
fairylike: Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as,fairylike music.
faith: By my faith; in truth; verily.
faithed: Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere. [Obs.] "Make thywords faithed." Shak.
faitour: A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.[Obs.]Lo! faitour, there thy meed unto thee take. Spenser.
fake: One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it liesin a coil; a single turn or coil.
faker: One who fakes something, as a thief, a peddler of petty things,a workman who dresses things up, etc. [Slang]
fakir: An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk. [Written alsofaquir anf fakeer.]
falanaka: A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied tothe civet; -- called also Falanouc.
falcade: The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunchestwo or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quickcurvets. Harris.
falcation: The state of being falcate; a bend in the form of a sickle. SirT. Browne.
falcer: One of the mandibles of a spider.
falcidian: Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune.Falcidian law (Civil Law), a law by which a testator was obliged toleave at least a fourth of his estate to the heir. Burrill.
falciform: Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reapinghook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver.
falcon: An ancient form of cannon. Chanting falcon. (Zoöl.) See underChanting.
falconer: A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game;one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks. Johnson.
falcongentil: The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius).
falconine: Like a falcon or hawk; belonging to the Falconid�
falcula: A curved and sharp-pointed claw.
falculate: Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon.
faldage: A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep,in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- oftenreserved to himself by the lord of the manor. Spelman.
faldfee: A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage onhis own ground. Blount.
falding: A frieze or rough-napped cloth. [Obs.]
faldistory: The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel. [Obs.]
faldstool: A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in themanner of a camo stool. It was formerly placed in the choir for abishop, when he offciated in any but his own cathedral church.Fairholt.
falernian: Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as,Falernianwine.
falk: The razorbill. [Written also falc, and faik.] [Prov. Eng.]
fallacious: Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted todeceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning.-- Fal*la"cious*ly, adv. -Fal*la"cious*ness, n.
fallacy: An argument, or apparent argument, which professes to bedecisive of the matter at issue, while in reality it is not; asophism.
fallax: Cavillation; a caviling. [Obs.] Cranmer.
fallen: Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead.Some ruined temple or fallen monument. Rogers.
fallency: An exception. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
faller: A part which acts by falling, as a stamp in a fulling mill, orthe device in a spinning machine to arrest motion when a threadbreaks.
fallfish: A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); -- called also silver chub, and Shiner. The name is also applied toother allied species.
fallibility: The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to bedeceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser.
fallible: Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to bedeceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes arefallible.
fallibly: In a fallible manner.
falling: from Fall, v. i. Falling away, Falling off, etc. See To fallaway, To fall off, etc., under Fall, v. i.-- Falling band, the plain, broad, linen collar turning down overthe doublet, worn in the early part of the 17th century.-- Falling sickness (Med.), epilepsy. Shak.-- Falling star. (Astron.) See Shooting star.-- Falling stone, a stone falling through the atmosphere; ameteorite; an aërolite.-- Falling tide, the ebb tide.-- Falling weather, a rainy season. [Colloq.] Bartlett.
fallopian: Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopiantubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from theovaries to the uterus.
fallow: Left untilled or unsowed after plowing; uncultivated; as,fallow ground. Fallow chat, Fallow finch (Zoöl.), a small Europeanbird, the wheatear (Saxicola ænanthe). See Wheatear.
fallow deer: A European species of deer (Cervus dama), much smaller than thered deer. In summer both sexes are spotted with white. It is commonin England, where it is often domesticated in the parks.
fallowist: One who favors the practice of fallowing land. [R.] Sinclair.
fallowness: A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouseor manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered. [U.S.]Bartlett.
falsary: A falsifier of evidence. [Obs.] Sheldon.
false: Not in tune. False arch (Arch.), a member having the appearanceof an arch, though not of arch construction.-- False attic, an architectural erection above the main cornice,concealing a roof, but not having windows or inclosing rooms.-- False bearing, any bearing which is not directly upon a verticalsupport; thus, the weight carried by a corbel has a false bearing.-- False cadence, an imperfect or interrupted cadence.-- False conception (Med.), an abnormal conception in which a mole,or misshapen fleshy mass, is produced instead of a properly organizedfetus.-- False croup (Med.), a spasmodic affection of the larynx attendedwith the symptoms of membranous croup, but unassociated with thedeposit of a fibrinous membrane.-- False door or window (Arch.), the representation of a door orwindow, inserted to complete a series of doors or windows or to givesymmetry.-- False fire, a combustible carried by vessels of war, chiefly forsignaling, but sometimes burned for the purpose of deceiving anenemy; also, a light on shore for decoying a vessel to destruction.-- False galena. See Blende.-- False imprisonment (Law), the arrest and imprisonment of a personwithout warrant or cause, or contrary to law; or the unlawfuldetaining of a person in custody.-- False keel (Naut.), the timber below the main keel, used to serveboth as a protection and to increase the shio's lateral resistance.-- False key, a picklock.-- False leg. (Zoöl.) See Proleg.-- False membrane (Med.), the fibrinous deposit formed in croup anddiphtheria, and resembling in appearance an animal membrane.-- False papers (Naut.), documents carried by a ship giving falserepresentations respecting her cargo, destination, ect., for thepurpose of deceiving.-- False passage (Surg.), an unnatural passage leading off from anatural canal, such as the urethra, and produced usually by theunskillful introduction of instruments.-- False personation (Law), the intentional false assumption of thename and personality of another.-- False pretenses (Law), false representations concerning past orpresent facts and events, for the purpose of defrauding another.-- False rail (Naut.), a thin piece of timber placed on top of thehead rail to strengthen it.-- False relation (Mus.), a progression in harmony, in which acertain note in a chord appears in the next chord prefixed by a flator sharp.-- False return (Law), an untrue return made to a process by theofficer to whom it was delivered for execution.-- False ribs (Anat.), the asternal rebs, of which there are fivepairs in man.-- False roof (Arch.), the space between the upper ceiling and theroof. Oxford Gloss.-- False token, a false mark or other symbol, used for fraudulentpurposes.-- False scorpion (Zoöl.), any arachnid of the genus Chelifer. SeeBook scorpion.-- False tack (Naut.), a coming up into the wind and filling awayagain on the same tack.-- False vampire (Zoöl.), the Vampyrus spectrum of South America,formerly erroneously supposed to have blood-sucking habits; -- calledalso vampire, and ghost vampire. The genuine blood-sucking batsbelong to the genera Desmodus and Diphylla. See Vampire.-- False window. (Arch.) See False door, above.-- False wing. (Zoöl.) See Alula, and Bastard wing, under Bastard.-- False works (Civil Engin.), construction works to facilitate theerection of the main work, as scaffolding, bridge centering, etc.
false-faced: Hypocritical. Shak.
false-heart: False-hearted. Shak.
false-hearted: Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful;perfidious. Bacon.-- False"*heart`ed*ness, n. Bp. Stillingfleet.
falsely: In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously ortreacherously. "O falsely, falsely murdered." Shak.Oppositions of science, falsely so called. 1 Tim. vi. 20.Will ye steal, murder . . . and swear falsely Jer. vii. 9.
falseness: The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy;want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness;treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or asinger's notes; the falseness of a man, or of his word.
falser: A deceiver. [Obs.] Spenser.
falsetto: A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which liesabove his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice. SeeHead voice, under Voice.
falsicrimen: The crime of falsifying.
falsifiable: Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.Johnson.
falsification: The showing an item of charge in an account to be wrong. Story.
falsificator: A falsifier. Bp. Morton.
falsifier: One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance;a liar.
falsify: To avoid or defeat; to prove false, as a judgment. Blackstone.
falsism: That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement thefalsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism.
falter: To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.
faltering: Hesitating; trembling. "With faltering speech." Milton.-- n.
faluns: A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France,abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocenesubdivision.
falwe: Fallow. [Obs.] Chaucer.
falx: A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum;esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extendinto the great fissures of the brain.
famble: To stammer. [Obs.] Nares.
fameless: Without fame or renown.-- Fame"less*ly, adv.
familiar: A confidential officer employed in the service of the tribunal,especially in apprehending and imprisoning the accused.
familiarization: The act or process of making familiar; the result of becomingfamiliar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood.
familiarly: In a familiar manner.
familiarness: Familiarity. [R.]
familiary: Of or pertaining to a family or household; domestic. [Obs.]Milton.
familism: The tenets of the Familists. Milton.
familist: One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, andexisting in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who heldthat religion consists wholly in love.
familistery: A community in which many persons unite as in one family, andare regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.
family: A groupe of organisms, either animal or vegetable, related bycertain points of resemblance in structure or development, morecomprehensive than a genus, because it is usually based on fewer orless pronounced points of likeness. In zoölogy a family is lesscomprehesive than an order; in botany it is often considered the samething as an order. Family circle. See under Circle.-- Family man. (a) A man who has a family; esp., one who has a wifeand children living with him andd dependent upon him. (b) A man ofdomestic habits. "The Jews are generally, when married, mostexemplary family men." Mayhew.-- Family of curves or surfaces (Geom.), a group of curves orsurfaces derived from a single equation.-- In a family way, like one belonging to the family. "Why don't weask him and his ladies to come over in a family way, and dine withsome other plain country gentlefolks" Thackeray.-- In the family way, pregnant. [Colloq.]
famine: General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions;destitution. "Worn with famine." Milton.There was a famine in the land. Gen. xxvi. 1.Famine fever (Med.), typhus fever.
famishment: State of being famished.
famosity: The state or quality of being famous. [Obs.] Johnson.
famous: Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of;distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense,chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition,for eloquence, for military skill; a famous pirate.Famous for a scolding tongue. Shak.
famoused: Renowned. [Obs.] Shak.
famously: In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly;splendidly.Then this land was famously enriched With politic grave counsel.Shak.
famousness: The state of being famous.
famular: Domestic; familiar. [Obs.] Chaucer.
famulate: To serve. [Obs.]
famulist: A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to thesizar at Cambridge. [Oxford Univ., Eng.]
fan palm: Any palm tree having fan-shaped or radiate leaves; as theChamærops humilis of Southern Europe; the species of Sabal andThrinax in the West Indies, Florida, etc.; and especially the greattalipot tree (Corypha umbraculifera) of Ceylon and Malaya. The leavesof the latter are often eighteen feet long and fourteen wide, and areused for umbrellas, tents, and roofs. When cut up, they are used forbooks and manuscripts.
fan-nerved: Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; --said of certain leaves, and of the winfs of some insects.
fan-tailed: Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailedpigeon.
fanal: A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light.
fanatic: Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant inopinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especiallyon religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions.But Faith, fanatic Faith, once wedded fast To some dear falsehood,hugs it to the last. T. Moore.
fanatical: Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic. -Fa*nat"ic*al*ly, adv.-- Fa*nat"ic*al*ness, n.
fanaticism: Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagantnotions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.
fanaticize: To cause to become a fanatic.
fanatism: Fanaticism. [R.] Gibbon.
fancied: Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong.
fanciless: Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination. [R.]A pert or bluff important wight, Whose brain is fanciless, whoseblood is white. Armstrong.
fancy-free: Free from the power of love. "In maiden meditation, fancy-free." Shak.
fancy-sick: Love-sick. Shak.
fancymonger: A lovemonger; a whimsical lover. [Obs.] Shak.
fancywork: Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery,crocheting, netting, etc.
fand: imp. of Find. Spenser.
fane: A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church. [Poet.]Such to this British Isle, her Christian fanes. Wordsworth.
fanega: A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1 DeColange.
fanfare: A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.;also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during thechase.The fanfare announcing the arrival of the various Christian princes.Sir W. Scott.
fanfaron: A bully; a hector; a swaggerer; an empty boaster. [R.] Dryden.
fanfaronade: A swaggering; vain boasting; ostentation; a bluster. Swift.
fang: The tusk of an animal, by which the prey is seized and held ortorn; a long pointed tooth; esp., one of the usually erectile,venomous teeth of serpents. Also, one of the falcers of a spider.Since I am a dog, beware my fangs. Shak.
fanged: Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder. Also usedfiguratively.
fangle: Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; atrifling ornament.
fangled: New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. [Obs., exceptwith the prefix new.] See Newfangled. "Our fangled world." Shak.
fangleness: Quality of being fangled. [Obs.]He them in new fangleness did pass. Spenser.
fangless: Destitute of fangs or tusks. "A fangless lion." Shak.
fangot: A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundredweight.
fanion: A small flag sometimes carried at the head of the baggage of abrigade. [Obs.]
fanlike: Resembling a fan; -- specifically (Bot.), folded up like a fan,as certain leaves; plicate.
fannel: Same as Fanon.
fanon: A term applied to various articles, as
fantasia: A continuous composition, not divided into what are calledmovements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, butin which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form.
fantasied: Filled with fancies or imaginations. [Obs.] Shak.
fantasm: Same as Phantasm.
fantast: One whose manners or ideas are fantastic. [R.] Coleridge.
fantastic: A person given to fantastic dress, manners, etc.; an eccentricperson; a fop. Milton.Our fantastics, who, having a fine watch, take all ocasions to drowit out to be seen. Fuller.
fantastic-alness: The quality of being fantastic.
fantastical: Fanciful; unreal; whimsical; capricious; fantastic.
fantasticality: Fantastically. [Obs.]
fantastically: In a fantastic manner.the letter A, in scarlet, fantastically embroidered with gold thread,upon her bosom. Hawthorne.
fantasticism: The quality of being fantastical; fancifulness; whimsicality.Ruskin.
fantasticly: Fantastically. [Obs.]
fantasticness: Fantasticalness. [Obs.]
fantastico: A fantastic. [Obs.] Shak.
fantasy: To have a fancy for; to be pleased with; to like; to fancy.[Obs.] Cavendish.Which he doth most fantasy. Robynson (More's Utopia).
fantoccini: Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes bymeans of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.
fantom: See Phantom. Fantom corn, phantom corn. Grose.
fap: Fuddled. [Obs.] Shak.
faquir: See Fakir.
far: A young pig, or a litter of pigs.
far-about: A going out of the way; a digression. [Obs.] Fuller.
far-off: Remote; as, the far-off distance. Cf. Far-off, under Far, adv.
far-stretched: Stretched beyond ordinary limits.
farad: The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of acondenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt,is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the sameelectromotive force, passes through one ohm in one second; thecapacity, which, charged with one coulomb, gives an electro-motiveforce of one volt.
faradic: Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguishedelectrician; -- applied especially to induced currents ofelectricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus, onaccount of Faraday's investigations of their laws.
faradize: To stimulate with, or subject to, faradic, or inducted,electric currents. --Far"a*diz`er (#), n.
farand: See Farrand, n.
farandams: A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair. Simmonds.
farandole: A rapid dance in six-eight time in which a large number joinhands and dance in various figures, sometimes moving from room toroom. It originated in Provence.
farantly: Orderly; comely; respectable. [Obs.] Halliwell.
farce: Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing afowl; forcemeat.
farcement: Stuffing; forcemeat. [Obs.]They spoil a good dish with . . . unsavory farcements. Feltham.
farcical: Pertaining to farce; appropriated to farce; ludicrous;unnatural; unreal.They deny the characters to be farcical, because they are Gay.-- Far"ci*cal*ly, adv. -Far"ci*cal*ness, n.
farcilite: Pudding stone. [Obs.] Kirwan.
farcing: Stuffing; forcemeat.
farctate: Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp;-- opposed to tubular or hollow. [Obs.]
farcy: A contagious disease of horses, associated with painfululcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs. It is of thesame nature as glanders, and is often fatal. Called also farcin, andfarcimen.
fard: Paint used on the face. [Obs.] "Painted with French fard." J.Whitaker.
fardage: See Dunnage.
fardel: A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden. [Obs.] Shak.A fardel of never-ending misery and suspense. Marryat.
farding-bag: The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; therumen.
fardingdale: A farthingale. [Obs.]
fardingdeal: The fourth part of an acre of land. [Obs.] [Written alsofarding dale, fardingale, etc.]
faren: p. p. of Fare, v. i. Chaucer.
farewell: Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a persondeparting, but by custom now applied both to those who depart andthose who remain. It is often separated by the pronoun; as, fare youwell; and is sometimes used as an expression of separation only; as,farewell the year; farewell, ye sweet groves; that is, I bid youfarewell.So farewell hope, and with hope, farewell fear. Milton.Fare thee well! and if forever, Still forever fare thee well. Byron.
farfet: Farfetched. [Obs.]York with his farfet policy. Shak.
farfetch: To bring from far; to seek out studiously. [Obs.]To farfetch the name of Tartar from a Hebrew word. Fuller.
farina: Pollen. [R.] Craig.
farinose: Civered with a sort of white, mealy powder, as the leaves ofsome poplars, and the body of certain insects; mealy.
farl: Same as Furl. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
farlie: An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly. [Obs. orProv. Eng.] Drayton.
farm: A lease of the imposts on particular goods; as, the sugar farm,the silk farm.Whereas G. H. held the farm of sugars upon a rent of 10,000 marks perannum. State Trials (1196).
farmable: Capable of being farmed.
farmer: One who farms; as:(a) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leasedground; a tenant. Smart.(b) One who is devoted to the tillage of the soil; one who cultivatesa farm; an agriculturist; a husbandman.(c) One who takes taxes, customs, excise, or other duties, tocollect, either paying a fixed annuual rent for the privilege; as, afarmer of the revenues.(d) (Mining) The lord of the field, or one who farms the lot and copeof the crown. Farmer-general Etym
farmeress: A woman who farms.
farmership: Skill in farming.
farmery: The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; ahomestead. [Eng.]
farmhouse: A dwelling house on a farm; a farmer's residence.
farming: Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engagedin, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community.
farmost: Most distant; farthest.A spacious cave within its farmost part. Dryden.
farmstead: A farm with the building upon it; a homestead on a farm.Tennyson.With its pleasant groves and farmsteads. Carlyle.
farmsteading: A farmstead. [Scot.] Black.
farmyard: The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosedby the farm buildings.
farness: The state of being far off; distance; remoteness. [R.] Grew.
faro: A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players playagainst the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order inwhich the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack. Faro bank, thecapital which the proprietor of a farotable ventures in the game;also, the place where a game of faro is played. Hoyle.
faroese: An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroeislands.
farraginous: Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain.[R.] Kirwan.AA farraginous concurrence of all conditions, tempers, sexes, andages. Sir T. Browne.
farrago: A mass ccomposed of various materials confusedly mixed; amedley; a mixture.A confounded farrago of doubts, fears, hopes, wishes, and all theflimsy furniture of a country miss's brain. Sheridan.
farrand: Manner; custom; fashion; humor. [Prov. Eng.] [Written alsofarand.] Grose.
farreation: Same as Confarreation.
farrier: Defn:
farrow: A little of pigs. Shak.
farry: A farrow. [Obs.] Perry.
farse: An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latinservice in the vernacular; -- common in English before theReformation.
farsighted: Hypermetropic.
farsightedness: Hypermetropia.
farther: To help onward. [R.] See Further.
fartherance: See Furtherence.
farthermore: See Furthermore.
farthermost: Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.
farthest: Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree.  See Furthest.
farthingale: A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elasticmaterial, used to extend the petticoat.We'll revel it as bravely as the best, . . . With ruffs and cuffs,and farthingales and things. Shak.
fasces: A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the bladeprojecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of theirauthority.
fascet: A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc.,to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into themouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- calles alsopontee and punty.
fascia: A flat member of an order or building, like a flat band orbroad fillet; especially, one of the three bands which make up thearchitrave, in the Ionic order. See Illust. of Column.
fascial: Relating to a fascia.
fasciation: The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the conditionof being fasciated.
fascicle: A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicleof fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.
fascicled: Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicledleaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia;fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair.
fascicular: Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.
fascicularly: In a fascicled manner. Kirwan.
fascicule: A small bunch or bundle; a fascicle; as, a fascicule of fibers,hairs, or spines.
fascine: A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together,used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts,and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in matsfor dams, jetties, etc.
fascinous: Caused or acting by witchcraft. [Obs.] "Fascinous diseases."Harvey.
fasciola: A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain; thedentate convolution. Wilder.
fasciole: A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on theshells of spatangoid sea urchins. See Spatangoidea.
fash: To vex; to tease; to trouble. [Scot.]
fashion-monger: One who studies the fashions; a fop; a dandy. Marston.
fashion-mongering: Behaving like a fashion-monger. [R.] Shak.
fashionable: A person who conforms to the fashions; -- used chiefly in theplural.
fashionableness: State of being fashionable.
fashionably: In a fashionable manner.
fashioned: Having a certain style or fashion; as old-fashioned; new-fashioned.
fashioner: One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything. [R.]The fashioner had accomplished his task, and the dresses were broughthome. Sir W. Scott.
fashionist: An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions. [R.] Fuller.
fashionless: Having no fashion.
fassaite: A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol.
fast: That which fastens or holds; especially, (Naut.) a mooringrope, hawser, or chain; -- called, according to its position, a bow,head, quarter, breast, or stern fast; also, a post on a pier aroundwhich hawsers are passed in mooring.
fast-handed: Close-handed; close-fisted; covetous; avaricious. [Obs.] Bacon.
fasten: To fix one's self; to take firm hold; to clinch; to cling.A horse leech will hardly fasten on a fish. Sir T. Browne.
fastener: One who, or that which, makes fast or firm.
fastening: Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt,bar, buckle, etc.
faster: One who abstains from food.
fastidiosity: Fastidiousness; squeamishness. [Obs.] Swift.
fastidious: Difficult to please; delicate to fault; suited with difficulty;squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite.Proud youth ! fastidious of the lower world. Young.
fastish: Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated. [Colloq.] Thackeray.
fastly: Firmly; surely.
fastuous: Proud; haughty; disdainful. [Obs.] Barrow. Fas"tu*ous*ness, n.[Obs.] Jer. Taylor.
fat: Of a character which enables the compositor to make largewages; -- said of matter containing blank, cuts, or many leads, etc.;as, a fat take; a fat page. Fat lute, a mixture of pipe clay and oilfor filling joints.
fat-brained: Dull of apprehension.
fat-kidneyed: Gross; lubberly.Peace, ye fat-kidneyed rascal ! Shak.
fat-witted: Dull; stupid. Shak.
fata morgana: A kind of mirage by which distant objects appear inverted,distorted, displaced, or multiplied. It is noticed particularly atthe Straits of Messina, between Calabria and Sicily.
fatalism: The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that theytake place by inevitable necessity.
fatalist: One who maintains that all things happen by inevitablenecessity.
fatalistic: Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.
fatalness: , . Quality of being fatal. Johnson.
fatback: The menhaden.
fate: The three goddesses, Clotho, Lachesis, and Atropos, sometimescalled the Destinies, or Parcæwho were supposed to determine thecourse of human life. They are represented, one as holding thedistaff, a second as spinning, and the third as cutting off thethread.
fateful: Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate. "The fatefulsteel." J. Barlow.
father longlegs: See Daddy longlegs, 2.
father-in-law: The father of one's husband or wife; -- correlative to son-in-law and daughter-in-law.
father-lasher: A European marine fish (Cottus bubalis), allied to the sculpin;-- called also lucky proach.
fatherhood: The state of being a father; the character or authority of afather; paternity.
fatherland: One's native land; the native land of one's fathers orancestors.
fatherlessness: The state of being without a father.
fatherliness: The qualities of a father; parantal kindness, care, etc.
fathership: The state of being a father; fatherhood; paternity.
fathomable: Capable of being fathomed.
fathomer: One who fathoms.
fatidical: Having power to foretell future events; prophetic; fatiloquent;as, the fatidical oak. [R.] Howell.-- Fa*tid"i*cal*ly, adv.
fatiferous: Fate-bringing; deadly; mortal; destructive. [R.] Johnson.
fatigable: Easily tired. [Obs.] Bailey.
fatigate: Wearied; tired; fatigued. [Obs.]Requickened what in flesh was fatigate. Shak.
fatigation: Weariness. [Obs.] W. Montaqu.
fatigue: To weary with labor or any bodily or mental exertion; to harasswith toil; to exhaust the strength or endurance of; to tire.
fatiloquent: Prophetic; fatidical. [Obs.] Blount.
fatiloquist: A fortune teller.
fatiscence: A gaping or opening; state of being chinky, or havingapertures. Kirwan.
fatling: A calf, lamb, kid, or other young animal fattened forslaughter; a fat animal; -- said of such animals as are used forfood.He sacrificed oxen and fatlings. 2 Sam. vi. 13.
fatly: Grossly; greasily.
fatner: One who fattens. [R.] See Fattener. Arbuthnit.
fatten: To grow fat or corpulent; to grow plump, thick, or fleshy; tobe pampered.And villains fatten with the brave man's labor. Otway.
fattener: One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness orfertility.
fattiness: State or quality of being fatty.
fattish: Somewhat fat; inclined to fatness.Coleridge, a puffy, anxious, obstructed-looking, fattish old man.Carlyle.
fatty: Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross;as, a fatty substance. Fatty acid (Chem.), any one of the paraffinseries of monocarbonic acids, as formic acid, acetic, etc.; -- socalled because the higher members, as stearic and palmitic acids,occur in the natural fats, and are themselves fatlike substances.-- Fatty clays. See under Clay.-- Fatty degeneration (Med.), a diseased condition, in which the oilglobules, naturally present in certain organs, are so multiplied asgradually to destroy and replace the efficient parts of these organs.-- Fatty heart, Fatty liver, etc. (Med.), a heart, liver, etc.,which have been the subjects of fatty degeneration or infiltration.-- Fatty infiltration (Med.), a condition in which there is anexcessive accumulation of fat in an organ, without destruction of anyessential parts of the latter.-- Fatty tumor (Med.), a tumor consisting of fatty or adiposetissue; lipoma.
fatuitous: Stupid; fatuous.
fatuity: Weakness or imbecility of mind; stupidity.Those many forms of popular fatuity. I Taylor.
faubourg: A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city,but formerly without its walls.
faucal: Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial;esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural soundsfound in the Semitic and some other languages.Ayin is the most difficult of the faucals. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).
fauces: The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situatedbetween the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called alsothe isthmus of the fauces. On either side of the passage twomembranous folds, called the pillars of the fauces, inclose thetonsils.
fauchion: See Falchion. [Obs.]
faucial: Pertaining to the fauces; pharyngeal.
faugh: An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.
faulchion: See Falchion.
faulcon: See Falcon.
fauld: The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch.
faule: A fall or falling band. [Obs.]These laces, ribbons, and these faules. Herrick.
fault: A lost scent; act of losing the scent.Ceasing their clamorous cry till they have singled, With much ado,the cold fault cleary out. Shak.
fault-finder: One who makes a practice off discovering others' faults andcensuring them; a scold.
fault-finding: The act of finding fault or blaming; -- used derogatively. AlsoAdj.
faulter: One who commits a fault. [Obs.]Behold the faulter here in sight. Fairfax.
faultful: Full of faults or sins. Shak.
faultily: In a faulty manner.
faultiness: Quality or state of being faulty.Round, even to faultiness. Shak.
faulting: The state or condition of being faulted; the process by which afault is produced.
faultless: Without fault; not defective or imperfect; free from blemish;free from incorrectness, vice, or offense; perfect; as, a faultlesspoem.Whoever thinks a faultless piece to see, Thinks what ne'er was, noris, nor e'er shall be. Pope.
faun: A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr.The fauns are usually represented as half goat and half man.Satyr or Faun, or Sylvan. Milton.
fauna: The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna ofAmerica; fossil fauna; recent fauna.
faunal: Relating to fauna.
faunist: One who describes the fauna of country; a naturalist. GilbertWhite.
faunus: See Faun.
fausen: A young eel. [Prov. Eng.]
fausse-braye: A second raampart, exterior to, and parallel to, the mainrampart, and considerably below its level.
fautor: A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; anabettor. [Obs.]The king and the fautors of his proceedings. Latimer.
fautress: A patroness. [Obs.] Chapman.
fauvette: A small singing bird, as the nightingale and warblers.
faux: See Fauces.
faux pas: A false step; a mistake or wrong measure.
favaginous: Formed like, or resembling, a honeycomb.
favas: See Favus, n., 2. Fairholt.
favel: Yellow; fal [Obs.] Wright.
favella: A group of spores arranged without order and covered with athin gelatinous envelope, as in certain delicate red algæ.
faveolate: Honeycomb; having cavities or cells, somewhat resembling thoseof a honeycomb; alveolate; favose.
favier explosive: Any of several explosive mixtures, chiefly of ammonium nitrateand a nitrate derivative of naphthalene. They are stable, but requireprotection from moisture. As prepared it is a compressed cylinder ofthe explosive, filled with loose powder of the same composition, allinclosed in waterproof wrappers. It is used for mining.
favillous: Of or pertaining to ashes. [Obs.]Light and favollous particles. Sir T. Browne.
favonian: Pertaining to the west wind; soft; mild; gentle.
favor: Partiality; bias. Bouvier.
favoredly: In a favored or a favorable manner; favorably. [Obs.] Deut.xvii. 1. Arscham.
favoredness: Appearance. [Obs.]
favorer: One who favors; one who regards with kindness or friendship; awell-wisher; one who assists or promotes success or prosperity.[Written also favourer.]And come to us as favorers, not as foes. Shak.
favoress: A woman who favors or gives countenance. [Written alsofovouress.]
favoring: That favors.-- Fa"vor*ing*ly, adv.
favorite: Short curls dangling over the temples; -- fashionable in thereign of Charles II. [Obs.] Farquhar.
favoritism: The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one personor family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others havingequal claims; partiality.A spirit of favoritism to the Bank of the United States. A. Hamilton.
favose: Honeycombed. See Faveolate.
favosite: Like or pertaining to the genus Favosites.
favosites: A genus of fossil corals abundant in the Silurian and Devonianrocks, having polygonal cells with perforated walls.
favus: A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite.
fawe: Fain; glad; delighted. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fawkner: A falconer. [Obs.] Donne.
fawn: A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck.
fawn-colored: Of the color of a fawn; light yellowish brown.
fawner: One who fawns; a sycophant.
fawningly: In a fawning manner.
faxed: Hairy. [Obs.] amden.
fay: A fairy; an elf. "Yellow-skirted fays." Milton.
fayalite: A black, greenish, or brownish mineral of the chrysolite group.It is a silicate of iron.
fayence: See Fa.
faytour: See Faitour. [Obs.] Spenser.
faze: See Feeze.
fazzolet: A handkerchief. [R.] percival.
feaberry: A gooseberry. [Prov. Eng.] Prior.
feague: To beat or whip; to drive. [Obs.] Otway.
feal: Faithful; loyal. [Obs.] Wright.
fear: A variant of Fere, a mate, a companion. [Obs.] Spenser.
fearer: One who fars. Sir P. Sidney.
fearfully: In a fearful manner.
fearfulness: The state of being fearful.
fearless: Free from fear.
fearsome: . Easily frightened; timid; timorous. "A silly fearsome thing."B. Taylor
feasibility: The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that whichis feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider itsfeasibility.Men often swallow falsities for truths, dubiosities for certainties,possibilities for feasibilities. Sir T. Browne.
feastful: Festive; festal; joyful; sumptuous; luxurious. "Feastful days."Milton.-- Feast"ful*ly, adv.
feat: To form; to fashion. [Obs.]To the more mature, A glass that feated them. Shak.
feat-bodied: Having a feat or trim body. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
feateous: Dexterous; neat. [Obs.] Johnson.-- Feat"e*ous*ly, adv.
feather: A longitudinal strip projecting as a fin from an object, tostrengthen it, or to enter a channel in another object and therebyprevent displacement sidwise but permit motion lengthwise; a spline.
feather-brained: Giddy; frivolous; feather-headed. [Colloq.]
feather-edge: The thin, new growth around the edge of a shell, of an oyster.
feather-edged: Having a feather-edge; also, having one edge thinner than theother, as a board; -- in the United States, said only of stuff oneedge of which is made as thin as practicable.
feather-few: Feverfew.
feather-foil: An aquatic plant (Hottonia palustris), having finely dividedleaves.
feather-head: A frivolous or featherbrained person. [Colloq.] H. James.
feather-headed: Giddy; frivolous; foolish. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.
feather-heeled: Light-heeled; gay; frisky; frolicsome. [Colloq.]
feather-pated: Feather-headed; frivolous. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.
feather-veined: Having the veins (of a leaf) diverging from the two sides of amidrib.
featherbone: A substitute for whalebone, made from the quills of geese andturkeys.
feathered: Having a fringe of feathers, as the legs of certian birds; orof hairs, as the legs of a setter dog.
featheriness: The state or condition of being feathery.
feathering: Same as Foliation.
featherless: Destitute of feathers.
featherly: Like feathers. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
featherness: The state or condition of being feathery.
featherstitch: A kind of embroidery stitch producing a branching zigzag line.
feathery: Pertaining to, or resembling, feathers; covered with, or aswith, feathers; as, feathery spray or snow. Milton.Ye feathery people of mid air. Barry Cornwall.
featly: Neatly; dexterously; nimbly. [Archaic]Foot featly here and there. Shak.
featness: Skill; adroitness. [Archaic] Johnson.
featureless: Having no distinct or distinctive features.
featurely: Having features; showing marked peculiarities; handsome. [R.]Featurely warriors of Christian chivalry. Coleridge.
feaze: To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope. Johnson.
feazings: The unlaid or ragged end of a rope. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
febricitate: To have a fever. [Obs.] Bailey.
febriculose: Somewhat feverish. [Obs.] Johnson.
febrifacient: Febrific. Dunglison.-- n.
febriferous: Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality.
febrific: Producing fever. Dunglison.
febrifugal: Having the quality of mitigating or curing fever. Boyle.
febrifuge: A medicine serving to mitigate or remove fever.-- a.
febrile: Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it; as,febrile symptoms; febrile action. Dunglison.
february: The second month in the year, said to have been introduced intothe Roman calendar by Numa. In common years this month containstwenty-eight days; in the bissextile, or leap year, it has twenty-nine days.
februation: Purification; a sacrifice. [Obs.] Spenser.
fecal: relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; fæcal.
fecche: To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
feces: dregs; sediment; excrement. See FÆces.
fecial: Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties ofpeace; as, fecial law. Kent.
fecifork: The anal fork on which the larvæ of certain insects carry theirfæces.
feckless: Spiritless; weak; worthless. [Scot]
fecklessness: absence of merit.[WordNet 1.5]
fecks: A corruption of the word faith. Shak.
fecula: Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breakingdown the texture, washing with water, and subsidence. Especially:(a) The nutritious part of wheat; starch or farina; -- called alsoamylaceous fecula. (b) The green matter of plants; chlorophyll.
feculency: Feculence.
feculent: Foul with extraneous or impure substances; abounding withsediment or excrementitious matter; muddy; thick; turbid.Both his hands most filthy feculent. Spenser.
fecund: Fruitful in children; prolific. Graunt.
fecundate: To render fruitful or prolific; to impregnate; as, in flowersthe pollen fecundates the ovum through the stigma.
fecundation: The act by which, either in animals or plants, materialprepared by the generative organs the female organism is brought incontact with matter from the organs of the male, so that a neworganism results; impregnation; fertilization.
fecundify: To make fruitful; to fecundate. Johnson.
fed: imp. & p. p. of Feed.
fedary: A feodary. [Obs.] Shak.
federal: See Federalist.
federalism: the principles of Federalists or of federal union.
federalist: An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer. Hist.), afriend of the Constitution of the United States at its formation andadoption; a member of the political party which favored theadministration of president Washington.
federalize: To unite in compact, as different States; to confederate forpolitical purposes; to unite by or under the Federal Constitution.Barlow.
federary: A partner; a confederate; an accomplice. [Obs.] hak.
federate: United by compact, as sovereignties, states, or nations; joinedin confederacy; leagued; confederate; as, federate nations.
federative: Uniting in a league; forming a confederacy; federal. "Afederative society." Burke.
fedity: Turpitude; vileness. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
fee: A right to the use of a superior's land, as a stipend forservices to be performed; also, the land so held; a fief.
fee-faw-fum: A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres;hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid andignorant. "Impudent fee-faw-fums." J. H. Newman.
feeble: To make feble; to enfeeble. [Obs.]Shall that victorious hand be feebled here Shak.
feeble-minded: Weak in intellectual power; wanting firmness or constancy;irresolute; vacilating; imbecile. "comfort the feeble-minded." 1Thess. v. 14.-- Fee"ble-mind"ed*ness, n.
feebleness: The quality or condition of being feeble; debility; infirmity.That shakes for age and feebleness. Shak.
feebly: In a feeble manner.The restored church . . . contended feebly, and with half a heart.Macaulay.
feeder: An auxiliary part of a machine which supplies or leads alongthe material operated upon.
feejee: See Fijian.
feeler: One of the sense organs or certain animals (as insects), whichare used in testing objects by touch and in searching for food; anantenna; a palp.Insects . . . perpetually feeling and searching before them withtheir feelers or antennæ. Derham.
feelingly: In a feeling manner; pathetically; sympathetically.
feere: A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere. [Obs.]
feese: the short run before a leap. [Obs.] Nares.
feet: See Foot.
feetless: Destitute of feet; as, feetless birds.
feeze: Fretful excitement. [Obs.] See Feaze.
fehling: See Fehling's solution, under Solution.
fehmic: See Vehmic.
feigned: Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false."A feigned friend." Shak.Give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips. Ps.xvii. 1.-- Feign"ed*ly, adv.-- Feign"ed*ness, n.Her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned unto me with her wholeheart, but feignedly. Jer. iii. 10.Feigned issue (Law), an issue produced in a pretended action betweentwo parties for the purpose of trying before a jury a question offact which it becomes necessary to settle in the progress of a cause.Burill. Bouvier.
feigner: One who feigns or pretends.
feigning: That feigns; insincere; not genuine; false.-- Feign"ing*ly, adv.
feine: To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer.
feint: Feigned; counterfeit. [Obs.]Dressed up into any feint appearance of it. Locke.
feitsui: The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale greenjade. See Jade.
feize: See Feeze, v. t.
felanders: See Filanders.
fele: Many. [Obs.] Chaucer.
felicify: To make happy; to felicitate. [Obs.] Quarles.
felicitate: Made very happy. [Archaic]I am alone felicitate In your dear highness' love. Shak.
felicitation: The act of felicitating; a wishing of joy or happiness;congratulation.
felicitous: Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful;skilful; successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate.Felicitous words and images. M. Arnold.-- Fe*lic"i*tous*ly, adv.-- Fe*lic"i*tous*ness, n.
feline: Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidæ;as, the feline race; feline voracity.
felis: A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, thelion, tiger, panther, and similar animals.
fell: imp. of Fall.
fellable: Fit to be felled.
fellah: A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians,Syrians, etc. W. M. Thomson.
feller: One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machinefor felling trees.
fellfare: The fieldfare.
fellifluous: Flowing with gall. [R.] Johnson.
fellinic: Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinicacid.
fellmonger: A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool fromthe pelts.
fellness: The quality or state of being fell or cruel; fierce barbarity.Spenser.
felloe: See Felly.
fellon: Variant of Felon. [Obs.]Those two were foes the fellonest on ground. Spenser.
fellow: To suit with; to pair with; to match. [Obs.] Shak.
fellow-commoner: A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, ordines, at the Fellow's table.
fellow-creature: One of the same race or kind; one made by the same Creator.Reason, by which we are raised above our fellow-creatures, thebrutes. I. Watts.
fellowfeel: To share through sympathy; to participate in. [R.] D. Rodgers.
fellowless: Without fellow or equal; peerless.Whose well-built walls are rare and fellowless. Chapman.
fellowlike: Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic.[Obs.] Udall.
fellowly: Fellowlike. [Obs.] Shak.
fellowship: (Eccl.) To acknowledge as of good standing, or in communionaccording to standards of faith and practice; to admit to Christianfellowship.
felly: , adv. In a fell or cruel manner; fiercely; barbarously;savagely. Spenser.
felo-de-se: One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loseshis life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or maliciousact; a suicide. Burrill.
felon: A person who has committed a felony.
felonious: Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous;traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commita crime; as, felonious homicide.O thievish Night, Why should'st thou, but for some felonious end, Inthy dark lantern thus close up the stars Milton.-- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ly, adv.-- Fe*lo"ni`ous*ness, n.
felonous: Wicked; felonious. [Obs.] Spenser.
felonry: A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of apenal colony. Howitt.
felonwort: The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). SeeBittersweet.
felony: An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee byforfeiture. Burrill.
felsite: A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consistingessentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.
felsitic: relating to, composed of, or containing, felsite.
felspathic: See Feldspathic.
felstone: See Felsite.
felt: imp. & p. p. or a. from Feel.
felt grain: , the grain of timber which is transverse to the annular ringsor plates; the direction of the medullary rays in oak and some othertimber. Knight.
felter: To clot or mat together like felt.His feltered locks that on his bosom fell. Fairfax.
feltry: See Felt, n. [Obs.]
felucca: A small, swift-sailing vessel, propelled by oars and lateensails, -- once common in the Mediterranean.
felwort: A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family.
female: A plant which produces only that kind of reproductive organswhich are capable of developing into fruit after impregnation orfertilization; a pistillate plant.
female fern: a common species of fern with large decompound fronds(Asplenium Filixfæmina), growing in many countries; lady fern.
female rhymes: double rhymes, or rhymes (called in French feminine rhymesbecause they end in e weak, or feminine) in which two syllables, anaccented and an unaccented one, correspond at the end of each line.
femalist: A gallant. [Obs.]Courting her smoothly like a femalist. Marston.
femalize: To make, or to describe as, female or feminine. Shaftesbury.
feme: A woman. Burrill. Feme covert (Law), a married woman. SeeCovert, a., 3.-- Feme sole (Law), a single or unmarried woman; a woman who hasnever been married, or who has been divorced, or whose husband isdead.-- Feme sole trader or merchant (Eng. Law), a married woman, by thecustom of London, engages in business on her own account, inpendentlyof her husband.
femeral: See Femerell.
femerell: A lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, forventilation or escape of smoke.
feminal: Feminine. [Obs.] West.
feminality: Feminity.
feminate: Feminine. [Obs.]
femineity: Womanliness; femininity. C. Read
feminine: Any one of those words which are the appellations of females,or which have the terminations usually found in such words; as,actress, songstress, abbess, executrix.There are but few true feminines in English. Latham.
feminine rhyme: See Female rhyme, under Female, a.
femininely: In a feminine manner. Byron.
feminineness: The quality of being feminine; womanliness; womanishness.
feminity: Womanliness; femininity. [Obs.] "Trained up in true feminity."Spenser.
feminization: The act of feminizing, or the state of being feminized.
feminize: To make womanish or effeminate. Dr. H. More.
feminye: The people called Amazons. [Obs.] "[The reign of] feminye."Chaucer.
femme: A woman. See Feme, n. Femme de chambre. Etym
femoral: Pertaining to the femur or thigh; as, the femoral artery."Femoral habiliments." Sir W. Scott.
fen: Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water,but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggyland; moor; marsh.'Mid reedy fens wide spread. Wordsworth.
fen cricket: The mole cricket. [Prov. Eng.]
fen-sucked: Sucked out of marches. "Fen-sucked fogs." Shak.
fence: A projection on the bolt, which passes through the tumblergates in locking and unlocking.
fence month: the month in which female deer are fawning, when hunting isprohibited. Bullokar.-- Fence roof, a covering for defense. "They fitted their shieldsclose to one another in manner of a fence roof." Holland. Fence time,the breeding time of fish or game, when they should not be killed.-- Rail fence, a fence made of rails, sometimes supported by posts.-- Ring fence, a fence which encircles a large area, or a wholeestate, within one inclosure.-- Worm fence, a zigzag fence composed of rails crossing one anotherat their ends; -- called also snake fence, or Virginia rail fence.-- To be on the fence, to be undecided or uncommitted in respect totwo opposing parties or policies. [Colloq.]
fenceful: Affording defense; defensive. [Obs.] Congreve.
fenceless: Without a fence; uninclosed; open; unguarded; defenseless.Milton.
fencer: One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencingwith sword or foil.As blunt as the fencer's foils. Shak.
fenci-ble: Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense.[Obs.]No fort so fencible, nor walls so strong. Spenser.
fencible: A soldier enlisted for home service only; -- usually in the pl.
fend: A fiend. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fender: One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm;as:(a) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escapingto the floor.(b) Anything serving as a cushion to lessen the shock when a vesselcomes in contact with another vessel or a wharf.(c) A screen to protect a carriage from mud thrown off the wheels:also, a splashboard.(d) Anything set up to protect an exposed angle, as of a house, fromdamage by carriage wheels.
fendliche: Fiendlike. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fenerate: To put money to usury; to lend on interest. [Obs.] Cockeram.
feneration: The act of fenerating; interest. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
fenes-tella: Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show therelics within an altar, or the like.
fenestra: A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed bymembranes, between the tympanum and internal ear.
fenestral: Pertaining to a window or to windows.
fenestrate: Having transparent spots, as the wings of certain butterflies.
fenestrated: Having windows; characterized by windows.
fenestration: The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modernwriters for the decorating of an architectural composition by meansof the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions.
fenestrule: One of the openings in a fenestrated structure.
feng-hwang: A pheasantlike bird of rich plumage and graceful form andmovement, fabled to appear in the land on the accession of a sage tothe throne, or when right principles are about to prevail. It isoften represented on porcelains and other works of art.
feng-shui: A system of spirit influences for good and evil believed by theChinese to attend the natural features of landscape; also, a kind ofgeomancy dealing with these influences, used in determining sites forgraves, houses, etc.
fengite: A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows onaccount of its transparency.
fenian: A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly ofIrishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule inireland.
fenianism: The principles, purposes, and methods of the Fenians.
fenks: The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in themanufacture of Prussian blue. Ure.
fennec: A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawncolor, remarkable for the large size of its ears.
fennel: A perennial plant of the genus Fæniculum (F.vulgare), havingvery finely divided leaves. It is cultivated in gardens for theagreeable aromatic flavor of its seeds.Smell of sweetest fennel. Milton.A sprig of fennel was in fact the theological smelling bottle of thetender sex. S. G. Goodrich.Azorean, or Sweet, fennel, (Fæniculum dulce). It is a smaller andstouter plant than the common fennel, and is used as a pot herb.-- Dog's fennel (Anthemis Cotula), a foul-smelling European weed; --called also mayweed.-- Fennel flower (Bot.), an herb (Nigella) of the Buttercup family,having leaves finely divided, like those of the fennel. N.Damascenais common in gardens. N.sativa furnishes the fennel seed, used as acondiment, etc., in India. These seeds are the "fitches" mentioned inIsaiah (xxviii. 25).-- Fennel water (Med.), the distilled water of fennel seed. It isstimulant and carminative.-- Giant fennel (Ferula communis), has stems full of pith, which, itis said, were used to carry fire, first, by Prometheus.-- Hog's fennel, a European plant (Peucedanum officinale) lookingsomething like fennel.
fennish: Abounding in fens; fenny.
fenny: Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy;boggy. "Fenny snake." Shak.
fenowed: Corrupted; decayed; moldy. See Vinnewed. [Obs.] Dr. Favour.
fensi-ble: Fencible. [Obs.] Spenser.
fenugreek: A plant (trigonella Foenum Græcum) cultivated for its strong-smelling seeds, which are "now only used for giving false importanceto horse medicine and damaged hay." J. Smith (Pop. Names of Plants,1881).
feod: A feud. See 2d Feud. Blackstone.
feodal: Feudal. See Feudal.
feodality: Feudal tenure; the feudal system. See Feudality. Burke.
feodary: An ancient officer of the court of wards. Burrill.
feodatory: See Feudatory.
feoff: , v. t. [imp. & p. p. Feoffed; p. pr. & vb. n.. Feoffing.]Etym
feoffee: The person to whom a feoffment is made; the person enfeoffed.
feoffment: One who enfeoffs or grants a fee.
fer: Far. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fer-de-lance: A large, venomous serpent (Trigonocephalus lanceolatus) ofBrazil and the West Indies. It is allied to the rattlesnake, but hasno rattle.
feracious: Fruitful; producing abudantly. [R.] Thomson.
feracity: The state of being feracious or fruitful. [Obs.] Beattie.
ferae: A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora,Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted tothe Carnivora.
ferae naturae: Of a wild nature; -- applied to animals, as foxes, wild ducks,etc., in which no one can claim property.
feral: Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts,birds, and plants. feral child, not raised by humans
ferde: imp. of Fare. Chaucer.
ferding: A measure of land mentioned in Domesday Book. It is supposed tohave consisted of a few acres only. [Obs.]
ferdness: Fearfulness. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fere: A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife. [Obs.] [Writtenalso fear and feere.] Chaucer.And Cambel took Cambrina to his fere. Spenser.In fere, together; in company. [Obs.] Chaucer.
feretory: A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used forcontaining relics of saints. Mollett.
ferforth: Far forth. [Obs.] As ferforth as, as far as.-- So ferforth, to such a degree.
ferforthly: Ferforth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fergusonite: A mineral of a brownish black color, essentially a tantalo-niobate of yttrium, erbium, and cerium; -- so called after RobertFerguson.
feria: A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast.Shipley.
ferial: Same as Feria.
feriation: The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
ferie: A holiday. [Obs.] Bullokar.
ferier: , compar. of Fere, fierce. [Obs.]Rhenus ferier than the cataract. Marston.
ferine: Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears areferine beasts. Sir M. Hale.-- n.
feringee: The name given to Europeans by the Hindos. [Written alsoFeringhee.]
ferity: Wildness; savageness; fierceness. [Obs.] Woodward.
ferly: Singular; wonderful; extraordinary. [Obs.] -- n.
fermacy: Medicine; pharmacy. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ferment: To cause ferment of fermentation in; to set in motion; toexcite internal emotion in; to heat.Ye vigorous swains! while youth ferments your blood. Pope.
fermentability: Capability of fermentation.
fermentable: Capable of fermentation; as, cider and other vegetable liquorsare fermentable.
fermental: Fermentative. [Obs.]
fermentation theory: The theory which likens the course of certain diseases (esp.infectious diseases) to the process of fermentation, and attributesthem to the organized ferments in the body. It does not differmaterially from the accepted germ theory (which see).
fermentative: Causing, or having power to cause, fermentation; produced byfermentation; fermenting; as, a fermentative process.-- Fer*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.-- Fer*ment"a*tive*ness, n.
fermerere: The officer in a religious house who had the care of theinfirmary. [Obs.]
fermeture: The mechanism for closing the breech of a breech-loadingfirearm, in artillery consisting principally of the breechblock,obturator, and carrier ring.
fermillet: A buckle or clasp. [Obs.] Donne.
fern: Long ago. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fernery: A place for rearing ferns.
fernticle: A freckle on the skin, resembling the seed of fern. [Prov.Eng.]
ferny: Abounding in ferns.
ferocious: Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious;as, ferocious look or features; a ferocious lion.The humbled power of a ferocious enemy. Lowth.
ferocity: Savage wildness or fierceness; fury; cruelty; as, ferocity ofcountenance.The pride and ferocity of a Highland chief. Macaulay.
feroher: A symbol of the solar deity, found on monuments exhumed inBabylon, Nineveh, etc.
ferous: Wild; savage. [R.] Arthur Wilson.
ferrandine: A stuff made of silk and wool.I did buy a colored silk ferrandine. Pepys.
ferranti phenomenon: An increase in the ratio of transformation of an alternatingcurrent converter, accompanied by other changes in electricalconditions, occurring when the secondary of the converter isconnected with a condenser of moderate capacity; -- so called becausefirst observed in connection with the Ferranti cables in London.
ferrara: A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy.These swords were highly esteemed in England and Scotland in the 16thand 17th centuries.
ferrarese: Pertaining to Ferrara, in Italy.-- n., sing. & pl.
ferrary: The art of working in iron. [Obs.] Chapman.
ferrate: A salt of ferric acid.
ferreous: Partaking of, made of, or pertaining to, iron; like iron.[Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
ferrest: superl. of Fer. Chaucer.
ferret: An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela or Putorius furo),about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color,with red eyes. It is a native of Africa, but has been domesticated inEurope. Ferrets are used to drive rabbits and rats out of theirholes.
ferret-eye: The spur-winged goose; -- so called from the red circle aroundthe eyes.
ferreter: One who ferrets. Johnson.
ferretto: Copper sulphide, used to color glass. Hebert.
ferri-: A combining form indicating ferric iron as an ingredient; as,ferricyanide.
ferriage: The price or fare to be paid for passage at a ferry.
ferric: Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically(Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valencethan in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid. Ferricacid (Chem.), an acid, H2FeO4, which is not known in the free state,but forms definite salts, analogous to the chromates and sulphates.-- Ferric oxide (Chem.), sesquioxide of iron, Fe2O3; hematite. SeeHematite.
ferricyanate: A salt of ferricyanic acid; a ferricyanide.
ferricyanic: Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide. Ferricyanicacid (Chem.), a brown crystalline substance, H6(CN)12Fe2, obtainedfrom potassium ferricyanide, and regarded as the type of theferricyanides; -- called also hydro-ferricyanic acid, hydrogenferricyanide, etc.
ferricyanide: One of a complex series of double cyanides of ferric iron andsome other base. Potassium ferricyanide (Chem.), red prussiate ofpotash; a dark, red, crystalline salt, K6(CN)12Fe2, consisting of thedouble cyanide of potassium and ferric iron. From it is derived theferrous ferricyanate, Turnbull's blue.
ferrier: A ferryman. Calthrop.
ferriferous: Producing or yielding iron.
ferriprussiate: A ferricyanate; a ferricyanide. [R.]
ferriprussic: Ferricyanic. [R.]
ferris wheel: An amusement device consisting of a giant power-driven steelwheel, revolvable on its stationary axle, and carrying a number ofbalanced passenger cars around its rim; -- so called after G. W. G.Ferris, American engineer, who erected the first of its kind for theWorld's Columbian Exposition in Chicago in 1893.
ferro-: A prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as aningredient; as, ferrocyanide.
ferro-concrete: Concrete strengthened by a core or foundation skeleton of ironor steel bars, strips, etc. Floors, columns, piles, water pipes,etc., have been successfully made of it. Called also armored concretesteel, and reënforced concrete.
ferrocalcite: Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, andhence turning brown on exposure.
ferrocyanate: A salt of ferrocyanic acid; a ferrocyanide.
ferrocyanic: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a ferrocyanide.ferrocyanic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, H4(CN)6Fe,of strong acid properties, obtained from potassium ferrocyanide, andregarded as the type of the ferrocyanides; -- called also hydro-ferrocyanic acid, hydrogen ferrocyanide. etc.
ferrocyanide: One of a series of complex double cyanides of ferrous iron andsome other base. Potassium ferrocyanide (Chem.), yellow prussiate ofpotash; a tough, yellow, crystalline salt, K4(CN)6Fe, the startingpoint in the manufacture of almost all cyanogen compounds, and thebasis of the ferric ferrocyanate, prussian blue. It is obtained bystrongly heating together potash, scrap iron, and animal mattercontaining nitrogen, as horn, leather, blood, etc., in iron pots.
ferroprussiate: A ferrocyanate; a ferocyanide. [R.]
ferroprussic: Ferrocyanic.
ferroso-: See Ferro-.
ferrotype: A photographic picture taken on an iron plate by a collodionprocess; -- familiarly called tintype.
ferrous: Pertaining to, or derived from, iron; -- especially used ofcompounds of iron in which the iron has its lower valence; as,ferrous sulphate.
ferruginated: Having the color or properties of the rust of iron.
ferrugineous: Ferruginous. [R.]
ferrugo: A disease of plants caused by fungi, commonly called the rust,from its resemblance to iron rust in color.
ferrule: A bushing for expanding the end of a flue to fasten it tightlyin the tube plate, or for partly filling up its mouth.
ferruminate: To solder or unite, as metals. [R.] Coleridge.
ferrumination: The soldering ir uniting of me [R.] Coleridge.
ferry: To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrowwater, in a boat.
ferryboat: A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., acrossstreams and other narrow waters.
ferryman: One who maintains or attends a ferry.
fers: Fierce. [Obs.] Chaucer.
ferthe: Fourth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fertilely: In a fertile or fruitful manner.
fertileness: Fertility. Sir P. Sidney.
fertilitate: To fertilize; to fecundate. Sir T. Browne.
fertility: The state or quality of being fertile or fruitful;fruitfulness; productiveness; fecundity; richness; abundance ofresources; fertile invention; quickness; readiness; as, the fertilityof soil, or of imagination. "fertility of resource." E. Everett.And all her husbandry doth lie on heaps Corrupting in its ownfertility. Shak.Thy very weeds are beautiful; thy waste More rich than other climes'fertility. Byron.
fertilization: The act of fecundating or impregnating animal or vegetablegerms; esp., the process by which in flowers the pollen renders theovule fertile, or an analogous process in flowerless plants;fecundation; impregnation. Close fertilization (Bot.), thefertilization of pistils by pollen derived from the stamens of thesame blossom.-- Cross fertilization, fertilization by pollen from some otherblossom. See under Cross, a.
ferulaceous: Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as,ferulaceous plants.
ferular: A ferule. [Obs.] Milton.
ferule: A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on thehand, in punishment.
ferulic: Pertaining to, or derived from, asafetida (Ferula asafoetida);as, ferulic acid. [Written also ferulaic.]
fervence: Heat; fervency. [Obs.]
fervency: The state of being fervent or warm; ardor; warmth of feeling ordevotion; eagerness.When you pray, let it be with attention, with fervency, and withperseverance. Wake.
fervescent: Growing hot.
fescennine: Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines.-- n.
fescue: A grass of the genus Festuca. Fescue grass (Bot.), a genus ofgrasses (Festuca) containing several species of importance inagriculture. Festuca ovina is sheep's fescue; F. elatior is meadowfescue.
fesels: See Phasel. [Obs.] May (Georgics).
fessitude: Weariness. [Obs.] Bailey.
fesswise: In the manner of fess.
fest: The fist. [Obs.] Chaucer.
festal: Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive.You bless with choicer wine the festal day. Francis.
festally: Joyously; festively; mirthfully.
festennine: A fescennine.
fester: To cause to fester or rankle.For which I burnt in inward, swelt'ring hate, And fstered rankingmalice in my breast. Marston.
festerment: A festering. [R.] Chalmers.
festeye: To feast; to entertain. [Obs.] Chaucer.
festi-val: A time of feasting or celebration; an anniversary day of joy,civil or religious.The morning trumpets festival proclaimed. Milton.
festinate: Hasty; hurried. [Obs.] -- Fes"ti*nate*ly, adv. [Obs.] Shak.
festination: Haste; hurry. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
festival: Pertaining to a fest; festive; festal; appropriate to afestival; joyous; mirthful.I cannot woo in festival terms. Shak.
festive: Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay;mirthful; sportive.-- Fes"tive*ly, adv.The glad circle round them yield their souls To festive mirth and witthat knows no gall. Thomson.
festivous: Pertaining to a feast; festive. [R.] Sir W. Scott.
festlich: Festive; fond of festive occasions. [Obs.] "A festlich man."Chaucer.
festoon: A carved ornament consisting of flowers, and leaves, intermixedor twisted together, wound with a ribbon, and hanging or depending ina natural curve. See Illust. of Bucranium.
festoony: Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons. Sir J.Herschel.
festucine: Of a straw color; greenish yellow. [Obs.]A little insect of a festucine or pale green. Sir T. Browne.
festucous: Formed or consisting of straw. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
festue: A straw; a fescue. [Obs.] Holland.
fet: A piece. [Obs.] Dryton.
fetal: Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetalcirculation; fetal membranes.
fetation: The formation of a fetus in the womb; pregnancy.
fetch: To bring one's self; to make headway; to veer; as, to fetchabout; to fetch to windward. Totten. To fetch away (Naut.), to breakloose; to roll slide to leeward.-- To fetch and carry, to serve obsequiously, like a trainedspaniel.
fetcher: One wo fetches or brings.
fete: A feat. [Obs.] Chaucer.
feticide: The act of killing the fetus in the womb; the offense ofprocuring an abortion.
feticism: See Fetichism.
fetid: Having an offensive smell; stinking.Most putrefactions . . . smell either fetid or moldy. Bacon.
fetidity: Fetidness.
fetidness: The quality or state of being fetid.
fetiferous: Producing young, as animals.
fetis: Neat; pretty; well made; graceful. [Obs.]Full fetis was her cloak, as I was ware. Chaucer.
fetisely: Neatly; gracefully; properly. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fetlock: The cushionlike projection, bearing a tuft of long hair, on theback side of the leg above the hoof of the horse and similar animals.Also, the joint of the limb at this point (between the great pasternbone and the metacarpus), or the tuft of hair.Their wounded steeds Fret fetlock deep in gore. Shak.
fetor: A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness. Arbuthnot.
fette: To fetch. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fetter: 1. To put fetters upon; to shakle or confine the feet of with achain; to bind.My heels are fettered, but my fist is free. Milton.
fettered: Seeming as if fettered, as the feet pf certain animals whichbend backward, and appear unfit for walking.
fetterer: One who fetters. Landor.
fetterless: Free from fetters. Marston.
fettle: 1. To repair; to prepare; to put in order. [Prov. Eng.]Carlyle.
fettling: A mixture of ore, cinders, etc., used to line the hearth of apuddling furnace. [Eng.] [It is commonly called fix in the UnitedStates.]
fetuous: Neat; feat. [Obs.] Herrick.
fetus: The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg;often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparousand oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages.[Written also foetus.]
fetwah: A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law.Whitworth.
feu: A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service tobe performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of militaryservices, makes a return in grain or in money. Burrill.
feu de joie: A fire kindled in a public place in token of joy; a bonfire; afiring of guns in token of joy.
feuar: One who holds a feu. Sir W. Scott.
feud: A stipendiary estate in land, held of superior, by service; theright which a vassal or tenant had to the lands or other immovablething of his lord, to use the same and take the profists thereofhereditarily, rendering to his superior such duties and services asbelong to military tenure, etc., the property of the soil alwaysremaining in the lord or superior; a fief; a fee.
feudalism: The feudal system; a system by which the holding of estates inland is made dependent upon an obligation to render military serviceto the kind or feudal superior; feudal principles and usages.
feudalist: An upholder of feudalism.
feudality: The state or quality of being feudal; feudal form orconstitution. Burke.
feudalization: The act of reducing to feudal tenure.
feudalize: To reduce toa feudal tenure; to conform to feudalism.
feudally: In a feudal manner.
feudary: Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure.
feudatary: See Feudatory.
feudatory: A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior oncondition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.The grantee . . . was styled the feudatory or vassal. Blackstone.[He] had for feudatories great princes. J. H. Newman.
feudist: A writer on feuds; a person versed in feudal law. Spelman.
feuillants: A reformed branch of the Bernardines, founded in 1577 atFeuillans, near Toulouse, in France.
feuillemort: Having the color of a faded leaf. Locke.
feuilleton: A part of a French newspaper (usually the bottom of the page),devoted to light literature, criticism, etc.; also, the article ortale itself, thus printed.
feuilltonist: A writer of feuilletons. F. Harrison.
feuter: To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear. Spenser.
feuterer: A dog keeper. [Obs.] Massinger.
fever: A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat,acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of thefunctions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite. Manydiseases, of which fever is the most prominent symptom, aredenominated fevers; as, typhoid fever; yellow fever.
feveret: A slight fever. [Obs.] Ayliffe.
feverfew: A perennial plant (Pyrethrum, or Chrysanthemum, Parthenium)allied to camomile, having finely divided leaves and white blossoms;-- so named from its supposed febrifugal qualities.
feverously: Feverishly. [Obs.] Donne.
feverwort: See Fever root, under Fever.
fevery: Feverish. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
few: Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicatinga small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often,by ellipsis of a noun, a few people. "Are not my days few" Job x. 20.Few know and fewer care. Proverb.
fewel: Fuel. [Obs.] Hooker.
fewmet: See Fumet. [Obs.] B. Jonson.
fey: Fated; doomed. [Old Eng. & Scot.]
feyne: To feign. [Obs.] Chaucer.
feyre: A fair or market. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fez: A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- avariety of the tarboosh. See Tarboosh. B. Taylor.
fiacre: A kind of French hackney coach.
fiance: To betroth; to affiance. [Obs.] Harmar.
fiancee: A betrothed woman.
fiants: The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger.
fiar: One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to theestate of a life renter.I am fiar of the lands; she a life renter. Sir W. Scott.
fiasco: A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musicalperformance, or of any pretentious undertaking.
fiaunt: Commission; fiat; order; decree. [Obs.] Spenser.
fib: A falsehood; a lie; -- used euphemistically.They are very serious; they don't tell fibs. H. James.
fibber: One who tells fibs.
fibriform: Having the form of a fiber or fibers; resembling a fiber.
fibril: A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; afibrilla. Cheyne.
fibrilla: A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of amuscular fiber; a fibril.
fibrillar: Of or pertaining to fibrils or fibers; as, fibrillartwitchings.
fibrillary: Of of pertaining to fibrils.
fibrillated: Furnished with fibrils; fringed.
fibrillation: The state of being reduced to fibers. Carpenter.
fibrillose: Covered with hairlike appendages, as the under surface of somelichens; also, composed of little strings or fibers; as, fibrilloseappendages.
fibrillous: Pertaining to, or composed of, fibers.
fibrination: The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin.
fibrine: Belonging to the fibers of plants.
fibrinogen: An albuminous substance existing in the blood, and in otheranimal fluids, which either alone or with fibrinoplastin orparaglobulin forms fibrin, and thus causes coagulation.
fibrinogenous: Possessed of properties similar to fibrinogen; capable offorming fibrin.
fibrinoplastic: Like fibrinoplastin; capable of forming fibrin when brought incontact with fibrinogen.
fibrinoplastin: An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which incombination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called alsoparaglobulin.
fibrinous: Having, or partaking of the properties of, fibrin; as, fibriousexudation.
fibrocartilage: A kind of cartilage with a fibrous matrix and approachingfibrous connective tissue in structure.-- Fi`bro*car`ti*lag"i*nous, a.
fibrochondrosteal: Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous. St.George Mivart.
fibroid: Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as,fibroid tumors.-- n.
fibroin: A variety of gelatin; the chief ingredient of raw silk,extracted as a white amorphous mass.
fibrolite: A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure. It islike andalusite in composition; -- called also sillimanite, andbucholizite.
fibroma: A tumor consisting mainly of fibrous tissue, or of samemodification of such tissue.
fibrospongiae: An order of sponges having a fibrous skeleton, including thecommercial sponges.
fibrous: Containing, or consisting of, fibers; as, the fibrous coat ofthe cocoanut; the fibrous roots of grasses.-- Fi"brous*ness, n.
fibrovascular: Containing woody fiber and ducts, as the stems of all floweringplants and ferns; -- opposed to cellular.
fibster: One who tells fibs. [Jocular]
fibu-lar: Pertaining to the fibula.
fibula: The outer and usually the smaller of the two bones of the leg,or hind limb, below the knee.
fibulare: The bone or cartilage of the tarsus, which articulates with thefibula, and corresponds to the calcaneum in man and most mammals.
fice: A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc. [SouthernU.S.]
fiche: See FitchÉ.
fichtelite: A white crystallized mineral resin from the Fichtelgebirge,Bavaria.
fichu: A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neckand throat, and extending to the shoulders.
fickle: Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeablemind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as,Fortune's fickle wheel. Shak.They know how fickle common lovers are. Dryden.
fickleness: The quality of being fickle; instability; inconsonancy. Shak.
fickly: In a fickle manner. [Obs.] Pepys.
fico: A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one'sthumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing. A fig foryou.Steal! foh, a fico for the phrase. Shak.
fictile: Molded, or capable of being molded, into form by art; relatingto pottery or to molding in any soft material.Fictile earth is more fragile than crude earth. Bacon.The earliest specimens of Italian fictile art. C. Wordsworth.Fictile ware, ware made of any material which is molded or shapedwhile soft; hence, pottery of any sort.-- Fic"tile*ness, n.-- Fic*til"i*ty, n.
fiction: An assumption of a possible thing as a fact, irrespective ofthe question of its truth. Wharton.
fictional: Pertaining to, or characterized by, fiction; fictitious;romantic."Fictional rather than historical." Latham.
fictionist: A writer of fiction. [R.] Lamb.
fictious: Fictitious. [R.] Prior.
fictitious: Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; notgenuine; as, fictitious fame.The human persons are as fictitious as the airy ones. Pope.-- Fic*ti"tious*ly, adv.-- Fic*ti"tious*ness, n.
fictive: Feigned; counterfeit. "The fount of fictive tears." Tennyson.
fictor: An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in anyplastic material. [R.] Elmes.
ficus: A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F. Carica)produces the figs of commerce; the fig tree.
fid: A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast,being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting onthe trestle trees.
fidalgo: The lowest title of nobility in Portugal, corresponding to thatof Hidalgo in Spain.
fiddle: A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; akit.
fiddle-faddle: A trifle; trifling talk; nonsense. [Colloq.] Spectator.
fiddle-shaped: Inversely ovate, with a deep hollow on each side. Gray.
fiddledeedee: An exclamatory word or phrase, equivalent to nonsense![Colloq.]
fiddler: A burrowing crab of the genus Gelasimus, of many species. Themale has one claw very much enlarged, and often holds it in aposition similar to that in which a musician holds a fiddle, hencethe name; -- called also calling crab, soldier crab, and fightingcrab.
fiddlestick: The bow, strung with horsehair, used in playing the fiddle; afiddle bow.
fiddlestring: One of the catgut strings of a fiddle.
fiddlewood: The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genusCitharexylum.
fidejussion: The act or state of being bound as surety for another;suretyship.
fidejussor: A surety; one bound for another, conjointly with him; aguarantor. Blackstone.
fidelity: Faithfulness; adherence to right; careful and exact observanceof duty, or discharge of obligations. Especially:(a) Adherence to a person or party to which one is bound; loyalty.Whose courageous fidelity was proof to all danger. Macaulay.The best security for the fidelity of men is to make interestcoincide with duty. A. Hamilton.
fides: Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith.
fidge: See Fidget. [R.] Swift.
fidget: To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, orby fits and starts. Moore.
fidgetiness: Quality of being fidgety.
fidgety: Restless; uneasy. Lowell.
fidia: A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevineFidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America.
fidicinal: Of or pertaining to a stringed instrument.
fiducially: With confidence. South.
fiduciary: One who depends for salvation on faith, without works; anAntinomian. Hammond.
fie: An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy. Fuller.
fief: An estate held of a superior on condition of military service;a fee; a feud. See under Benefice, n., 2.
field: The whole surface of an escutcheon; also, so much of it isshown unconcealed by the different bearings upon it. See Illust. ofFess, where the field is represented as gules (red), while the fessis argent (silver).
fielded: Engaged in the field; encamped. [Obs.]To help fielded friends. Shak.
fielden: Consisting of fields. [Obs.]The fielden country also and plains. Holland.
fielder: A ball payer who stands out in the field to catch or stopballs.
fieldfare: a small thrush (Turdus pilaris) which breeds in northern Europeand winters in Great Britain. The head, nape, and lower part of theback are ash-colored; the upper part of the back and wing coverts,chestnut; -- called also fellfare.
fielding: The act of playing as a fielder.
fieldpiece: A cannon mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army; apiece of field artillery; -- called also field gun.
fieldwork: Any temporary fortification thrown up by an army in the field;-- commonly in the plural.All works which do not come under the head of permanent fortificationare called fieldworks. Wilhelm.
fieldy: Open, like a field. [Obs.] Wyclif.
fiend: An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wickedor cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil ora demon.Into this wild abyss the wary fiend Stood on the brink of Hell andlooked a while. Milton.O woman! woman! when to ill thy mind Is bent, all hell contains nofouler fiend. Pope.
fiendful: Full of fiendish spirit or arts. Marlowe.-- Fiend"ful*ly, adv.
fiendish: Like a fiend; diabolically wicked or cruel; infernal;malignant; devilish; hellish.-- Fiend"ish*ly, adv.-- Fiend"ish*ness, n.
fiendlike: Fiendish; diabolical. Longfellow.
fiendly: Fiendlike; monstrous; devilish. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fierasfer: A genus of small, slender fishes, remarkable for their habit ofliving as commensals in other animals. One species inhabits the gillcavity of the pearl oyster near Panama; another lives within an EastIndian holothurian.
fieri facias: A judicial writ that lies for one who has recovered in debt ordamages, commanding the sheriff that he cause to be made of thegoods, chattels, or real estate of the defendant, the sum claimed.Blackstone. Cowell.
fieriness: The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, afieriness of temper. Addison.
fiesta: Among Spanish, a religious festival; a saint's day or holiday;also, a holiday or festivity.
fife: A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chieflyto accompany the drum in military music. Fife major (Mil.), anoncommissioned officer who superintends the fifers of a regiment.-- Fife rail. (Naut.) (a) A rail about the mast, at the deck, tohold belaying pins, etc. (b) A railing around the break of a poopdeck.
fifer: One who plays on a fife.
fifteen: Five and ten; one more than fourteen.
fifth: The interval of three tones and a semitone, embracing fivediatonic degrees of the scale; the dominant of any key.
fifthly: In the fifth place; as the fifth in order.
fiftieth: One of fifty equal parts; the quotient of a unit divided byfifty.
fifty: Five times ten; as, fifty men.
fig: A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known fromthe remotest antiquity. It was probably native from Syria westward tothe Canary Islands.
fig-shell: A marine univalve shell of the genus Pyrula, or Ficula,resembling a fig in form.
figaro: An adroi
figary: A frolic; a vagary; a whim. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
figent: Fidgety; restless. [Obs.]Such a little figent thing. Beau. & Fl.
figgum: A juggler's trick; conjuring. [Obs.]The devil is the author of wicked figgum. B. Jonson.
fighter: One who fights; a combatant; a warrior. Shak.
fightingly: Pugnaciously.
fightwite: A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight orquarrel to the disturbance of the peace.
figment: An invention; a fiction; something feigned or imagined.Social figments, feints, and formalism. Mrs. Browning.It carried rather an appearance of figment and invention . . . thanof truth and reality. Woodward.
figpecker: The European garden warbler (Sylvia, or Currica, hortensis); --called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.
figuline: A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of naturalobjects.Whose figulines and rustic wares Scarce find him bread from day today. Longfellow.
figurability: The quality of being figurable. Johnson.
figurable: Capable of being brought to a fixed form or shape.Lead is figurable, but water is not. Johnson.
figural: Figurate. See Figurate. Figural numbers. See Figurate numbers,under Figurate.
figurant: One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups orfigures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in itsscenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene,without taking a prominent part.
figurante: A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl.
figurate: Florid; figurative; involving passing discords by the freermelodic movement of one or more parts or voices in the harmony; as,figurate counterpoint or descant. Figurate counterpoint or descant(Mus.), that which is not simple, or in which the parts do not movetogether tone for tone, but in which freer movement of one or moreparts mingles passing discords with the harmony; -- called alsofigural, figurative, and figured counterpoint or descant (althoughthe term figured is more commonly applied to a bass with numeralswritten above or below to indicate the other notes of the harmony).-- Figurate numbers (Math.), numbers, or series of numbers, formedfrom any arithmetical progression in which the first term is a unit,and the difference a whole number, by taking the first term, and thesums of the first two, first three, first four, etc., as thesuccessive terms of a new series, from which another may be formed inthe same manner, and so on, the numbers in the resulting series beingsuch that points representing them are capable of symmetricalarrangement in different geometrical figures, as triangles, squares,pentagons, etc.
figurated: Having a determinate form.
figurately: In a figurate manner.
figuration: Mixture of concords and discords.
figure: A diagram or drawing; made to represent a magnitude or therelation of two or more magnitudes; a surface or space inclosed onall sides; -- called superficial when inclosed by lines, and solidwhen inclosed by surface; any arrangement made up of points, lines,angles, surfaces, etc.
figurehead: The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship.
figurial: Represented by figure or delineation. [R.] Craig.
figurine: A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially,one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from statuette,which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc.
figurist: One who uses or interprets figurative expressions. Waterland.
figwort: A genus of herbaceous plants (Scrophularia), mostly found inthe north temperate zones. See Brownwort.
fijian: Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants.-- n.
fike: See Fyke.
fil: imp. of Fall, v. i. Fell. Chaucer.
filaceous: Composed of threads. Bacon.
filacer: A former officer in the English Court of Common Pleas; -- socalled because he filed the writs on which he made out process.[Obs.] Burrill.
filament: A thread or threadlike object or appendage; a fiber; esp.(Bot.), the threadlike part of the stamen supporting the anther.
filamentary: Having the character of, or formed by, a filament.
filamentoid: Like a filament.
filamentous: Like a thread; consisting of threads or filaments. Gray.
filander: A species of kangaroo (Macropus Brunii), inhabiting New Guinea.
filanders: A disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of smallthreadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from therupture of a vein; -- called also backworm. Sir T. Browne.
filar: Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threadsstretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filarmicrometer.
filaria: A genus of slender, nematode worms of many species, parasiticin various animals. See Guinea worm.
filarial: Of, pertaining to, or caused by, filariæ and allied parasiticworms.
filariasis: The presence of filariæ in the blood; infection with filariæ.
filasse: Vegetable fiber, as jute or ramie, prepared for manufacture.
filatory: A machine for forming threads. [Obs.] W. Tooke.
filbert: The fruit of the Corylus Avellana or hazel. It is an oval nut,containing a kernel that has a mild, farinaceous, oily taste,agreeable to the palate.
filch: To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of littlevalue); to pilfer.Fain would they filch that little food away. Dryden.But he that filches from me my good name, Robs me of that which notenriches him, And makes me poor indeed. Shak.
filcher: One who filches; a thief.
filchingly: By pilfering or petty stealing.
file: To put upon the files or among the records of a court; to noteon (a paper) the fact date of its reception in court.To file a paper, on the part of a party, is to place it in theofficial custody of the clerk. To file, on the part of the clerk, isto indorse upon the paper the date of its reception, and retain it inhis office, subject to inspection by whomsoever it may concern.Burrill.
file closer: A commissioned or noncommissioned officer posted in the rear ofa line, or on the flank of a column, of soldiers, to rectify mistakesand insure steadiness and promptness in the ranks.
filefish: Any plectognath fish of the genera Monacanthus, Alutera,balistes, and allied genera; -- so called on account of the roughlygranulated skin, which is sometimes used in place of sandpaper.
filemot: See Feullemort. Swift.
filer: One who works with a file.
filially: In a filial manner.
filiate: To adopt as son or daughter; to establish filiation between.[R.] Southey.
filiation: The assignment of a bastard child to some one as its ather;affiliation. Smart.
filibeg: Same as Kilt. [Written also philibeg.]
filibuster: A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest ofplunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infestingthe Spanish American coasts, but introduced into common English todesignate the followers of Lopez in his expedition to Cuba in 1851,and those of Walker in his expedition to Nicaragua, in 1855.
filibusterism: The characteristics or practices of a filibuster. Bartlett.
filical: Belonging to the Filices, r ferns.
filicic: Pertaining to, or derived from, ferns; as, filicic acid.
filicide: The act of murdering a son or a daughter; also, parent whocommits such a murder.
filiciform: Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf. Smart.
filicoid: Fernlike, either in form or in the nature of the method ofreproduction.
filiety: The relation of a son to a father; sonship; -- the correlativeof paternity. J. S. Mill.
filiferous: Producing threads. Carpenter.
filiform: Having the shape of a thread or filament; as, the filiformpapillæ of the tongue; a filiform style or peduncle. See Illust. ofAntennÆ.
filigraned: See Filigreed. [Archaic]
filigree: Ornamental work, formerly with grains or breads, but nowcomposed of fine wire and used chiefly in decorating gold and silverto which the wire is soldered, being arranged in designs frequentlyof a delicate and intricate arabesque pattern.
filigreed: Adorned with filigree. Tatler.
filing: A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as,iron filings.
filioque: The Latin for, "and from the Son," equivalent to et filio,inserted by the third council of Toledo (a. d. 589) in the clause quiex Patre procedit (who proceedeth from the Father) of the Niceno-Constantinopolitan Creed (a. d. 381), which makes a creed state thatthe Holy Ghost proceeds from the Son as well as from the Father.Hence, the doctrine itself (not admitted by the Eastern Church).
filipendulous: Suspended by, or strung upon, a thread; -- said of tuberousswellings in the middle or at the extremities of slender, threadlikerootlets.
filipino: A native of the Philippine Islands, specif. one of Spanishdescent or of mixed blood.
fill: One of the thills or shafts of a carriage. Mortimer. Fillhorse, a thill horse. Shak.
filled cheese: An inferior kind of cheese made from skim milk with a fatty"filling," such as oleomargarine or lard, to replace the fat removedin the cream.
filler: One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling.'T is mere filer, to stop a vacancy in the hexameter. Dryden.They have six diggers to four fillers, so as to keep the fillersalways at work. Mortimer.
fillet: A piece of lean meat without bone; sometimes, a long striprolled together and tied.
filleting: The protecting of a joint, as between roof and parapet wall,with mortar, or cement, where flashing is employed in better work.
fillibeg: A kilt. See Filibeg.
fillibuster: See Filibuster.
filling: Prepared wort added to ale to cleanse it. Back filling. (Arch.)See under Back, a.
fillipeen: See Philopena.
filly: A female foal or colt; a young mare. Cf. Colt, Foal.Neighing in likeness of a filly foal. Shak.
film: To cover with a thin skin or pellicle.It will but skin and film the ulcerous place. Shak.
filminess: State of being filmy.
filmy: Composed of film or films.Whose filmy cord should bind the struggling fly. Dryden.
filoplumaceous: Having the structure of a filoplume.
filoplume: A hairlike feather; a father with a slender scape and without aweb in most or all of its length.
filose: Terminating in a threadlike process.
filoselle: A kind of silk thread less glossy than floss, and spun fromcoarser material. It is much used in embroidery instead of floss.
fils: Son; -- sometimes used after a French proper name todistinguish a son from his father, as, Alexandre Dumas, fils.
filter: Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal,through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from thesolid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or devicecontaining such substance; a strainer; also, a similar device forpurifying air. Filter bed, a pond, the bottom of which is a filtercomposed of sand gravel.-- Filter gallery, an underground gallery or tunnel, alongside of astream, to collect the water that filters through the interveningsand and gravel; -- called also infiltration gallery.
filthily: In a filthy manner; foully.
filthy: Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty;polluted; foul; impure; obscene. "In the filthy-mantled pool." Shak.He which is filthy let him be filthy still. Rev. xxii. 11.
filtrate: To filter; to defecate; as liquid, by straining or percolation.Arbuthnot.
filtration: The act or process of filtering; the mechanical separation of aliquid from the undissolved particles floating in it.
fimbria: A fringe, or fringed border.(b) A band of white matter bordering the hippocampus in the brain.-- Fim"bri*al, a.
fimbriate: Having the edge or extremity bordered by filiform processesthicker than hairs; fringed; as, the fimbriate petals of the pink;the fimbriate end of the Fallopian tube.
fimbriated: Having a very narrow border of another tincture; -- said esp.of an ordinary or subordinary.
fimbricate: fringed, on one side only, by long, straight hairs, as theantennæ of certain insects.
fin: To carve or cut up, as a chub.
fin de siecle: Lit., end of the century; -- mostly used adjectively in Englishto signify
fin keel: A projection downward from the keel of a yacht, resembling inshape the fin of a fish, though often with a cigar-shaped bulb oflead at the bottom, and generally made of metal. Its use is toballast the boat and also to enable her to sail close to the wind andto make the least possible leeway by offering great resistance tolateral motion through the water.
fin-toed: Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also,lobate.
finable: Liable or subject to a fine; as, a finable person or offense.Bacon.
finale: Close; termination; as:(a) (Mus.) The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or anyinstrumental composition.(b) The last composition performed in any act of an opera.(c) The closing part, piece, or scene in any public performance orexhibition.
finalist: Any of the players who meet in the final round of a tournamentin which the losers in any round do not play again.
financial: Pertaining to finance. "Our financial and commercial system."Macaulay.
financialist: A financier.
financially: In a dfinancial manner. Burke.
financier: To conduct financial operations.
finary: See Finery.
finative: Conclusive; decisive; definitive; final. [Obs.] Greene (1593).
finback: Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balænoptera, and alliedgenera, of the family Balænopteridæ, characterized by a prominent finon the back. The common finbacks of the New England coast areSibbaldius tectirostris and S. tuberosus.
finbat kite: = Eddy kite. [Eng.]
finch: A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging tothe family Fringillidæ.
finchbacked: Streaked or spotted on the back; -- said of cattle.
finched: Same as Finchbacked.
find: To determine an issue of fact, and to declare such adetermination to a court; as, the jury find for the plaintiff.Burrill.
findable: Capable of beong found; discoverable. Fuller.
finder: One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a smalltelescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a largertelescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily.
findfault: A censurer or caviler. [Obs.]
findfaulting: Apt to censure or cavil; faultfinding; captious. [Obs.]Whitlock.
finding: The result of a judicial examination or inquiry, especiallyinto some matter of fact; a verdict; as, the finding of a jury.Burrill.After his friends finding and his rent. Chaucer.
findy: Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial. [Obs.]A cold May and a windy Makes the barn fat amd findy. Old Prover
fine: To impose a pecuniary penalty upon for an offense or breach oflaw; to set a fine on by judgment of a court; to punish by fine; tomulct; as, the trespassers were fined ten dollars.
finedraw: To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter.Marryat.
finedrawer: One who finedraws.
finedrawn: Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawnspeculations.
fineer: To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable forthe use of others, and then threatening not to take them except oncredit. [R.] Goldsmith.
fineless: Endless; boundless. [Obs.] Shak.
finely: In a fine or finished manner.
finer: One who fines or purifies.
finery: A charcoal hearth or furnace for the conversion of cast ironinto wrought iron, or into iron suitable for puddling.
finespun: Spun so as to be fine; drawn to a fine thread; attenuated;hence, unsubstantial; visionary; as, finespun theories.
finesse: The act of finessing. See Finesse, v. i., 2.
finestill: To distill, as spirit from molasses or some saccharinepreparation.
finestiller: One who finestills.
finew: Moldiness. [R.]
finfoot: A South American bird (heliornis fulica) allied to the grebes.The name is also applied to several related species of the genusPodica.
finger: To use the fingers in playing on an instrument. Busby.
fingered: Having leaflets like fingers; digitate.
fingerer: One who fingers; a pilferer.
fingerling: A young salmon. See Parr.
fingle-fangle: A trifle. [Low] Hudibras.
fingrigo: A prickly, climbing shrub of the genus Pisonia. The fruit is akind of berry.
finial: The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that formsthe upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes,the pinnacle itself.
finical: Affectedly fine; overnice; unduly particular; fastidious."Finical taste." Wordsworth.The gross style consists in giving no detail, the finical in givingnothing else. Hazlitt.
finicality: The quality of being finical; finicalness.
finific: A limiting element or quality. [R.]The essential finific in the form of the finite. Coleridge.
finify: To make fine; to dress finically. [Obs.]Hath so pared and finified them [his feet.] B. Jonson.
finikin: Precise in trifles; idly busy. [Colloq.] Smart.
finis: An end; conclusion. It is often placed at the end of a book.
finish: The joiner work and other finer work required for thecompletion of a building, especially of the interior. See Insidefinish, and Outside finish.
finished: Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete;perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education. Finished work(Mach.), work that is made smooth or polished, though not necessarilycompleted.
finishing: The act or process of completing or perfecting; the final workupon or ornamentation of a thing.
finite: Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity;bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence;a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration.
finiteless: Infinite. [Obs.] Sir T. browne.
finitely: In a finite manner or degree.
finiteness: The state of being finite.
finitude: Limitation. Cheyne.
finjan: In the Levant, a small coffee cup without a handle, such as isheld in a cup or stand called a zarf.
finlander: A native or inhabitant of Finland.
finless: destitute of fins.
finlet: A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin.
finlike: Resembling a fin.
finn: A native of Finland; one of the FinnFinns.
finnan haddie: Haddock cured in peat smoke, originally at Findon (pron.fìn"an), Scotland. the name is also applied to other kinds of smokedhaddock. [Written also finnan haddock.]
finned: Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin. Mortimer.
finner: A finback whale.
finnic: Of or pertaining to the Finns.
finnikin: A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the maneof a horse. [Written also finikin.]
finnish: Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to theirlanguage.-- n.
finny: Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes.
finochio: An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhattuberous stem; sweet fennel. The blanched stems are used in Franceand Italy as a culinary vegetable.
finos: Second best wool from Merino sheep. Gardner.
finpike: The bichir. See Crossopterygii.
finsen light: Highly actinic light, derived from sunlight or from some formof electric lamp, used in the treatment of lupus and other cutaneousaffections.
fint: 3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fiord: A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks orrocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska. [Written also fjord.]
fiorin: A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- calledalso fiorin grass.
fiorite: A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, insmooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearlyluster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia.
fioriture: Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singeror player.
fippenny bit: The Spanish half real, or one sixteenth of a dollar, -- socalled in Pennsylvania and the adjacent States. [Obs.]
fipple: A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music. [Obs.] Bacon.
fir: A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size andelegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others fortheir resin. The species are distinguished as the balsam fir, thesilver fir, the red fir, etc. The Scoth fir is a Pinus.
fir tree: . See Fir.
fire: To cauterize. To fire up, to light up the fires of, as of anengine.
fire beetle: A very brilliantly luminous beetle (Pyrophorus noctilucus), oneof the elaters, found in Central and South America; -- called alsocucujo. The name is also applied to other species. See Firefly.
fire-fanged: Injured as by fire; burned; -- said of manure which has lostits goodness and acquired an ashy hue in consequence of heatgenerated by decomposition.
fire-new: Fresh from the forge; bright; quite new; brand-new. Charlesreade.Your fire-new stamp of honor is scarce current. Shak.
fire-set: A set of fire irons, including, commonly, tongs, shovel, andpoker.
firearm: A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by theforce of an explosive substance, as gunpowder.
fireback: One of several species of pheasants of the genus Euplocamus,having the lower back a bright, fiery red. They inhabit Southern Asiaand the East Indies.
firebare: A beacon. [Obs.] Burrill.
firebird: The Baltimore oriole.
fireboard: A chimney board or screen to close a fireplace when not in use.
firebote: An allowance of fuel. See Bote.
firecracker: See Cracker., n., 3.
firecrest: A small European kinglet (Regulus ignicapillus), having abright red crest; -- called also fire-crested wren.
firedog: A support for wood in a fireplace; an andiron.
firefish: A singular marine fish of the genus Pterois, family Scorpænidæ,of several species, inhabiting the Indo-Pacific region. They areusually red, and have very large spinose pectoral and dorsal fins.
fireflaire: A European sting ray of the genus Trygon (T. pastinaca); --called also fireflare and fiery flaw.
fireflame: The European band fish (Cepola rubescens).
firefly: Any luminous winged insect, esp. luminous beetles of the familyLampyridæ.
fireless: Destitute of fire.
firelock: An old form of gunlock, as the flintlock, which ignites thepriming by a spark; perhaps originally, a matchlock. Hence, a gunhaving such a lock.
fireplace: The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; --usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.
fireproof: Proof against fire; incombustible.
fireproofing: The act or process of rendering anything incombustible; also,the materials used in the process.
firer: One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary. [R.] R.Carew.
fireroom: Same as Stokehold, below.
fireside: A place near the fire or hearth; home; domestic life orretirement.
firetail: The European redstart; -- called also fireflirt. [prov. Eng.]
firewarden: An officer who has authority to direct in the extinguishing offires, or to order what precautions shall be taken against fires; --called also fireward.
firewood: Wood for fuel.
firework: A pyrotechnic exhibition. [Obs. in the sing.]Night before last, the Duke of Richmond gave a firework. Walpole.
fireworm: The larva of a small tortricid moth which eats the leaves ofthe cranberry, so that the vines look as if burned; -- called alsocranberry worm.
firing pin: In the breech mechanism of a firearm, the pin which strikes thehead of the cartridge and explodes it.
firk: To beat; to strike; to chastise. [Obs.]I'll fer him, and firk him, and ferret him. Shak.
firlot: A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of aboll of grain or meal. The Linlithgow wheat firlot was to theimperial bushel as 998 to 1000; the barley firlot as 1456 to 1000.Brande & C.
firm: The name, title, or style, under which a company transactsbusiness; a partnership of two or more persons; a commercial house;as, the firm of Hope & Co.
firmament: The orb of the fixed stars; the most rmote of the celestialspheres.
firmamental: Pertaining to the firmament; celestial; being of the upperregions. Dryden.
firman: In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree ormandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generallygiven for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protectionand assistance. [Written also firmaun.]
firmer-chisel: A chisel, thin in proportion to its width. It has a tang toenter the handle instead of a socket for receiving it. Knight.
firmitude: Strength; stability. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
firmity: Strength; firmness; stability. [Obs.] Chillingworth.
firmly: In a firm manner.
firmness: The state or quality of being firm.
firms: The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafterstaken together. [Obs.]
firring: See Furring.
firry: Made of fir; abounding in firs.In firry woodlands making moan. Tennyson.
first: Before any other person or thing in time, space, rank, etc.; --much used in composition with adjectives and participles.Adam was first formed, then Eve. 1 Tim. ii. 13.At first, At the first, at the beginning or origin.-- First or last, at one time or another; at the beginning or end.And all are fools and lovers first or last. Dryden.
first-class: Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division;of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope. First-class car or First-class railway carriage, any passenger car of thehighest regular class, and intended for passengers who pay thehighest regular rate; -- distinguished from a second-class car.
first-hand: Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence,without the intervention of an agent.One sphere there is . . . where the apprehension of him is first-handand direct; and that is the sphere of our own mind. J. Martineau.
first-rate: Of the highest excellence; preëminent in quality, size, orestimation.Our only first-rate body of contemporary poetry is the German. M.Arnold.Hermocrates . . . a man of first-rate ability. Jowett (Thucyd).
firstborn: First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest;hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.
firstling: Firstborn.All the firstling males. Deut. xv. 19.
firstly: In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimesimproperly used for first.
firth: An arm of the sea; a frith.
fisc: A public or state treasury. Burke.
fiscal: Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.The fiscal arreangements of government. A. Hamilton.
fisetic: Pertaining to fustet or fisetin.
fisetin: A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, andregarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fiseticacid.
fish: A counter, used in various games.
fish-bellied: Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-belliedrail. Knight.
fish-block: See Fish-tackle.
fish-tackle: A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor upto the gunwale. The block used is called the fish-block.
fish-tail: Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like thetail of a fish. Fish-tail burner, a gas burner that gives a spreadingflame shaped somewhat like the tail of a fish.-- Fish-tail propeller (Steamship), a propeller with a single bladethat oscillates like the tail of a fish when swimming.
fisher: A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela Canadensis);the pekan; the "black cat."
fisherman: A ship or vessel employed in the business of taking fish, as inthe cod fishery.
fishery: The right to take fish at a certain place, or in particularwaters. Abbott.
fishful: Abounding with fish. [R.] "My fishful pond." R. Carew.
fishgig: A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish. Knight.
fishhawk: The osprey (Pandion haliaëtus), found both in Europe andAmerica; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizesfishes in its talons. Called also fishing eagle, and bald buzzard.
fishhook: A hook with a pendant, to the end of which the fish-tackle ishooked. Dana.
fishify: To change to fish. [R.] Shak.
fishiness: The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike. Pennant.
fishing: Pertaining to fishing; used in fishery; engaged in fishing; as,fishing boat; fishing tackle; fishing village. Fishing fly, anartificial fly for fishing.-- Fishing line, a line used in catching fish.-- Fishing net, a net of various kinds for catching fish; includingthe bag net, casting net, drag net, landing net, seine, shrimpingnet, trawl, etc.-- Fishing rod, a long slender rod, to which is attached the linefor angling.-- Fishing smack, a sloop or other small vessel used in sea fishing.-- Fishing tackle, apparatus used in fishing, as hook, line, rod,etc.-- Fishing tube (Micros.), a glass tube for selecting a microscopicobject in a fluid.
fishlike: Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities offish.A very ancient and fishlike smell. Shak.
fishmonger: A dealer in fish.
fishskin: See Ichthyosis.
fishwife: A fishwoman.
fishwoman: A woman who retails fish.
fisk: To run about; to frisk; to whisk. [Obs.]He fisks abroad, and stirreth up erroneous opinions. Latimer.
fissigemmation: A process of reproduction intermediate between fission andgemmation.
fissile: Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction ofthe grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, likecrystals.This crystal is a pellucid, fissile stone. Sir I. Newton.
fissilingual: Having the tongue forked.
fissilinguia: A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including thecommon lizards. [Written also Fissilingues.]
fissility: Quality of being fissile.
fission: A method of asexual reproduction among the lowest (unicellular)organisms by means of a process of self-division, consisting ofgradual division or cleavage of the into two parts, each of whichthen becomes a separate and independent organisms; as when a cell inan animal or plant, or its germ, undergoes a spontaneous division,and the parts again subdivide. See Segmentation, and Cell division,under Division.
fissipalmate: Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. underAves.
fissipara: Animals which reproduce by fission.
fissiparism: Reproduction by spontaneous fission.
fissiparity: Quality of being fissiparous; fissiparism.
fissiparous: Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission.-- Fis*sip"a*rous*ly, adv.
fissipation: Reproduction by fission; fissiparism.
fissiped: One of the Fissipedia.
fissipedia: A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, andbears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia.
fissirostral: Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case ofswallows and goatsuckers.
fissirostres: A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft.
fissural: Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural patternof a brain.
fissuration: The act of dividing or opening; the state of being fissured.
fissure: A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; acleft; as, the fissure of a rock. Cerebral fissures (Anat.), thefurrows or clefts by which the surface of the cerebrum is divided;esp., the furrows first formed by the infolding of the whole wall ofthe cerebrum.-- Fissure needle (Surg.), a spiral needle for catching together thegaping lips of wounds. Knight.-- Fissure of rolando (Anat.), the furrow separating the frontalfrom the parietal lobe in the cerebrum.-- Fissure of Sylvius (Anat.), a deep cerebral fissure separatingthe frontal from the temporal lobe. See Illust. under Brain.-- Fissure vein (Mining), a crack in the earth's surface filled withmineral matter. Raymond.
fissurella: A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical orlimpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyholelimpet.
fist: the index mark [], used to direct special attention to thepassage which follows. Hand over fist (Naut.), rapidly; hand overhand.
fistic: Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists;puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes. [Colloq.]
fisticuff: A cuff or blow with the fist or hand; (pl.)
fistinut: A pistachio nut. [Obs.] Johnson.
fistuca: An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.
fistula: A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with aconstant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormalopening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface;as, a salivary fistula; an anal fistula; a recto-vaginal fistula.Incomplete fistula (Med.), a fistula open at one end only.
fistular: Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed. Johnson.
fistularia: A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, withthe mouth at the extremity.
fistularioid: Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia.
fistulate: To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe. [Obs.]"A fistulated ulcer." Fuller.
fistule: A fistula.
fistuliform: Of a fistular form; tubular; pipe-shaped.Stalactite often occurs fistuliform. W. Philips.
fistulose: Formed like a fistula; hollow; reedlike. Craig.
fit: imp. & p. p. of Fight. [Obs. or Colloq.]
fitch: A vetch. [Obs.]
fitche: Sharpened to a point; pointed. Cross fitché, a cross having thelower arm pointed.
fitched: Fitché. [Also fiched.]
fitchy: Having fitches or vetches.
fitful: Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.After life's fitful fever, he sleeps well. Shak.-- Fit"ful*ly, adv.-- Fit"ful*ness, n.The victorius trumpet peal Dies fitfully away. Macaulay.
fitly: In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maximfitly applied.
fitment: The act of fitting; that which is proper or becoming;equipment. [Obs.] Shak.
fitness: The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measuresor laws; a person's fitness for office.
fitt: See 2d Fit.
fittable: Suitable; fit. [Obs.] Sherwood.
fittedness: The state or quality of being fitted; adaptation. [Obs.] Dr. H.More.
fitter: A little piece; a flitter; a flinder. [Obs.]Where's the Frenchman Alas, he's all fitters. Beau. & Fl.
fitting: Anything used in fitting up; especially (pl.),
fitweed: A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits.
fitz: A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp.of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as,Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke ofClarence.
five: Four and one added; one more than four.
five-finger: See Cinquefoil.
five-leaf: Cinquefoil; five-finger.
five-twenties: Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per centinterest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five andpayable in twenty years.
fivefold: In fives; consisting of five in one; five repeated; quintuple.
fiveling: A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals.
fives: A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; -- so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game.Smart. Fives court, a place for playing fives.
fix: Fixed; solidified. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fixable: Capable of being fixed.
fixative: That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as amordant.
fixed: Stable; non-volatile. Fixed air (Old Chem.), carbonic acid orcarbon dioxide; -- so called by Dr. Black because it can be absorbedor fixed by strong bases. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.-- Fixed alkali (Old Chem.), a non-volatile base, as soda, orpotash, in distinction from the volatile alkali ammonia.-- Fixed ammunition (Mil.), a projectile and powder inclosedtogether in a case ready for loading.-- Fixed battery (Mil.), a battery which contains heavy guns andmortars intended to remain stationary; -- distinguished from movablebattery.-- Fixed bodies, those which can not be volatilized or separated bya common menstruum, without great difficulty, as gold, platinum,lime, etc.-- Fixed capital. See the Note under Capital, n., 4.-- Fixed fact, a well established fact. [Colloq.] -- Fixed light,one which emits constant beams; -- distinguished from a flashing,revolving, or intermittent light.-- Fixed oils (Chem.), non-volatile, oily substances, as stearineand olein, which leave a permanent greasy stain, and which can not bedistilled unchanged; -- distinguished from volatile or essentialoils.-- Fixed pivot (Mil.), the fixed point about which any line oftroops wheels.-- Fixed stars (Astron.), such stars as always retain nearly thesame apparent position and distance with respect to each other, thusdistinguished from planets and comets.
fixedly: In a fixed, stable, or constant manner.
fixidity: Fixedness. [Obs.] Boyle.
fixing: Arrangements; embellishments; trimmings; accompaniments.[Colloq. U.S.]
fixture: Anything of an accessory character annexed to houses and lands,so as to constitute a part of them. This term is, however, quitefrequently used in the peculiar sense of personal chattels annexed tolands and tenements, but removable by the person annexing them, orhis personal representatives. In this latter sense, the same thingsmay be fixtures under some circumstances, and not fixtures underothers. Wharton (Law Dict. ). Bouvier.
fixure: Fixed position; stable condition; firmness. [Obs.] Shak.
fizgig: A fishing spear. [Obs.] Sandys.
fizz: To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse.
fizzle: A failure or abortive effort. [Colloq.]
fjord: See Fiord.
flabbergast: To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinarystatements. [Jocular] Beaconsfield.
flabbergastation: The state of being flabbergasted. [Jocular] London Punch.
flabbily: In a flabby manner.
flabbiness: Quality or state of being flabby.
flabby: Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hangingloose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh.
flabel: A fan. [Obs.] Huloet.
flabellate: Flabelliform.
flabellation: The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan orsome other contrivance. Dunglison.
flabelliform: Having the form of a fan; fan-shaped; flabellate.
flabellinerved: Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- saidof a leaf.
flabellum: A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on stateoccasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers. Shipley.
flabile: Liable to be blown about. Bailey.
flaccid: Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; softand weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle;flaccid flesh.Religious profession . . . has become flacced. I. Taylor.-- Flac"cid*ly, adv.-- Flac"cid*ness, n.
flaccidity: The state of being flaccid.
flacherie: A bacterial disease of silkworms, supposed to be due to eatingcontaminated mulberry leaves.
flacker: To flutter, as a bird. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.
flacket: A barrel-shaped bottle; a flagon.
flacon: A small glass bottle; as, a flacon for perfume. "Two glassflacons for the ink." Longfellow.
flag: An aquatic plant, with long, ensiform leaves, belonging toeither of the genera Iris and Acorus. Cooper's flag, the cat-tail(Typha latifolia), the long leaves of which are placed between thestaves of barrels to make the latter water-tight.-- Corn flag. See under 2d Corn.-- Flag broom, a coarse of broom, originally made of flags orrushes.-- Flag root, the root of the sweet flag.-- Sweet flag. See Calamus, n., 2.
flagellant: One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13thand 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equalvirtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant.
flagellata: An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia,at the anterior end. It includes monads. See Infusoria, and Monad.
flagellate: To whip; to scourge; to flog.
flagellation: A beating or flogging; a whipping; a scourging. Garth.
flagellator: One who practices flagellation; one who whips or scourges.
flagelliform: Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and(comming) tapering.
flagellum: A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailingbranch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.
flageolet: A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpieceinserted at one end. It produces a shrill sound, softer than of thepiccolo flute, and is said to have superseded the old recorder.Flageolet tones (Mus.), the naturel harmonics or overtones ofstringed instruments.
flagginess: The condition of being flaggy; laxity; limberness. Johnson.
flagging: A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively.
flaggy: Abounding with the plant called flag; as, a flaggy marsh.
flagitate: To importune; to demand fiercely or with passion. [Archaic]Carcyle.
flagitation: Importunity; urgent demand. [Archaic] Carlyle.
flagman: One who makes signals with a flag.
flagon: A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveyingliquors. It is generally larger than a bottle, and of leather orstoneware rather than of glass.A trencher of mutton chops, and a flagon of ale. Macaulay.
flagrance: Flagrancy. Bp. Hall.
flagrantly: In a flagrant manner.
flagrate: To burn. [Obs.] Greenhill.
flagration: A conflagration. [Obs.]
flagship: The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet orsquadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant.
flagstaff: A staff on which a flag is hoisted.
flagstone: A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split intosuch stones. See Flag, a stone.
flagworm: A worm or grub found among flags and sedge.
flaily: Acting like a flail. [Obs.] Vicars.
flain: p. p. of Flay. Chaucer.
flake: A small stage hung over a vessel's side, for workmen to standon in calking, etc.
flakiness: The state of being flaky.
flaky: Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, orcleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.What showers of mortal hail, what flaky fires! Watts.A flaky weight of winter's purest snows. Wordsworth.
flam: A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext;deception; delusion. [Obs.]A perpetual abuse and flam upon posterity. South.
flambe: Decorated by glaze splashed or irregularly spread upon thesurface, or apparently applied at the top and allowed to run down thesides; -- said of pieces of Chinese porcelain.
flambeau: A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a numberof thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently,perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch.
flamboyant: Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the traceryof windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothicstyle.
flamboyer: A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees withbrilliant blossoms, probably species of Cæsalpinia.
flame: To kindle; to inflame; to excite.And flamed with zeal of vengeance inwardly. Spenser.
flame-colored: Of the color of flame; of a bright orange yellow color. Shak.
flameless: Destitute of flame. Sandys.
flamelet: A small flame.The flamelets gleamed and flickered. Longfellow.
flamen: A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whomhe received a distinguishing epithet. The most honored were those ofJupiter, Mars, and Quirinus, called respectively Flamen Dialis,Flamen Martialis, and Flamen Quirinalis.Affrights the flamens at their service quaint. Milton.
flamineous: Pertaining to a flamen; flaminical.
flamingly: In a flaming manner.
flamingo: Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus. The flamingoes havewebbed feet, very long legs, and a beak bent down as if broken. Theircolor is usually red or pink. The American flamingo is P. ruber; theEuropean is P. antiquorum.
flaminical: Pertaining to a flamen. Milton.
flammability: The quality of being flammable; inflammability. [Obs.] Sir T.Browne.
flammable: Inflammable. [Obs.]
flammation: The act of setting in a flame or blaze. [Obs.] Sir. T. Browne.
flammeous: Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame. [Obs.] SirT. Browne.
flammiferous: Producing flame.
flammivomous: Vomiting flames, as a volcano. W. Thompson. (1745).
flammulated: Of a reddish color.
flamy: Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.Pope.
flanch: A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching onthe field from the side.
flanched: Having flanches; -- said of an escutcheon with those bearings.
flanconade: A thrust in the side.
flanerie: Lit., strolling; sauntering; hence, aimless; idleness; as,intellectual flânerie.
flaneur: One who strolls about aimlessly; a lounger; a loafer.
flang: A miner's two-pointed pick.
flange: To make a flange on; to furnish with a flange.
flanged: Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel.
flank: That part of a bastion which reaches from the curtain to theface, and defends the curtain, the flank and face of the oppositebastion; any part of a work defending another by a fire along theoutside of its parapet. See Illust. of Bastion.
flanker: One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body oftroops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march,or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body.They threw out flankers, and endeavored to dislodge their assailants.W. Irwing.
flannel: A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture. Shak. Adam'sflannel. (Bot.) See under Adam.-- Canton flannel, Cotton flannel. See Cotton flannel, under Cotton.
flanneled: Covered or wrapped in flannel.
flannen: Made or consisting of flannel. [Obs.] "Flannen robes." Dryden.
flap: Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attachedby one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment.A cartilaginous flap upon the opening of the larynx. Sir T. Browne.
flap-eared: Having broad, loose, dependent ears. Shak.
flap-mouthed: Having broad, hangling lips. [R.] Shak.
flapdragon: To swallow whole, as a flapdragon; to devour. [Obs.]See how the sea flapdragoned it. Shak.
flare: Leaf of lard. "Pig's flare." Dunglison.
flare-up: A sudden burst of anger or passion; an angry dispute. [Colloq.]
flaringly: In a flaring manner.
flash: To cover with a thin layer, as objects of glass with glass of adifferent color. See Flashing, n., 3 (b).
flash boiler: A variety of water-tube boiler, used chiefly in steamautomobiles, consisting of a nest of strong tubes with very littlewater space, kept nearly red hot so that the water as it tricklesdrop by drop into the tubes is immediately flashed into steam andsuperheated.
flash burner: A gas burner with a device for lighting by an electric spark.
flashboard: A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the waterin the pond above its usual level; a flushboard. [U.S.]
flashily: In a flashy manner; with empty show.
flashiness: The quality of being flashy.
flashing: The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in ofa body of water; -- called also flushing.
flask: The wooden or iron frame which holds the sand, etc., formingthe mold used in a foundry; it consists of two or more parts; viz.,the cope or top; sometimes, the cheeks, or middle part; and the drag,or bottom part. When there are one or more cheeks, the flask iscalled a three part flask, four part flask, etc. Erlenmeyer flask, athin glass flask, flat-bottomed and cone-shaped to allow of safelyshaking its contents laterally without danger of spilling; -- socalled from Erlenmeyer, a German chemist who invented it.-- Florence flask. Etym
flat: Wanting relief; destitute of variety; without points ofprominence and striking interest.A large part of the work is, to me, very flat. Coleridge.
flat foot: A foot in which the arch of the instep is flattened so that theentire sole of the foot rests upon the ground; also, the deformity,usually congential, exhibited by such a foot; splayfoot.
flat-bottomed: Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomedboat.
flat-cap: A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes inEngland, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, acitizen of London. Marston.
flat-headed: Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail.
flatbill: Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus. They belong to the familyof flycatchers.
flatboat: A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for thetransportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.
flatfish: Any fish of the family Pleuronectidæ; esp., the winter flounder(Pleuronectes Americanus). The flatfishes have the body flattened,swim on the side, and have eyes on one side, as the flounder, turbot,and halibut. See Flounder.
flathead: Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced byartificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians.
flatiron: An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes.
flative: Producing wind; flatulent. [Obs.] A. Brewer.
flatling: With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrateposition. [Obs.] Spenser.
flatlong: ; 115), adv. With the flat side downward; not edgewise. Shak.
flatly: In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully;frigidly; peremptori;y; positively, plainly. "He flatly refused hisaid." Sir P. Sidney.He that does the works of religion slowly, flatly, and withoutappetite. Jer. Taylor.
flatour: A flatterer. [Obs.] Chaucer.
flatten: To lower the pitch of; to cause to sound less sharp; to letfall from the pitch. To flatten a sail (Naut.), to set it more nearlyfore-and-aft of the vessel.-- Flattening oven, in glass making, a heated chamber in which splitglass cylinders are flattened for window glass.
flatter: To use flattery or insincere praise.If it may stand him more in stead to lie, Say and unsay, feign,flatter, or adjure. Milton.
flatterer: One who flatters.The most abject flaterers degenerate into the greatest tyrants.Addison.
flattering: That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, aflattering speech.Lay not that flattering unction to your soul. Shak.A flattering painter, who made it his care, To draw men as they oughtbe, not as they are. Goldsmith.
flatteringly: With flattery.
flattery: The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing byartiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, orexcessive praise.Just praise is only a debt, but flattery is a present. Rambler.Flattery corrupts both the receiver and the giver. Burke.
flattish: Somewhat flat. Woodward.
flatulently: In a flatulent manner; with flatulence.
flatuosity: Flatulence. [Obs.] Bacon.
flatuous: Windy; generating wind. [Obs.] Bacon.
flatware: Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are moreor less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.
flatwise: With the flat side downward, or next to another object; notedgewise.
flatworm: Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimesapplied to the planarians.
flaundrish: Flemish. [Obs.]
flaunt: To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as,a flaunting show.You flaunt about the streets in your new gilt chariot. Arbuthnot.One flaunts in rags, one flutters in brocade. Pope.
flauntingly: In a flaunting way.
flautist: A player on the flute; a flutist.
flauto: A flute. Flaute piccolo ( Etym
flavaniline: A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artificalproduction. It is a strong base, and is a complex derivative ofaniline and quinoline.
flavescent: Turning yellow; yellowish.
flavicomous: Having yellow hair. [R.]
flavin: A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron.
flavine: A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtainedartificially.
flavol: A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone,and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it.
flavor: To give flavor to; to add something (as salt or a spice) to, togive character or zest.
flavored: Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine.
flavorless: Without flavor; tasteless.
flavorous: Imparting flavor; pleasant to the taste or smell; sapid.Dryden.
flavous: Yellow. [Obs.]
flawless: Free from flaws. Boyle.
flawn: A sort of flat custard or pie. [Obs.] Tusser.
flawter: To scrape o [Obs.] Johnson.
flax: A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, whichhas a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blueflowers. The fiber of the bark is used for making thread and cloth,called linen, cambric, lawn, lace, etc. Linseed oil is expressed fromthe seed.
flax-plant: A plant in new Zealand (Phormium tenax), allied to the liliesand aloes. The leaves are two inches wide and several feet long, andfurnish a fiber which is used for making ropes, mats, and coarsecloth.
flaxen: Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color offlax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax ortow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair.
flaxseed: The seed of the flax; linseed.
flaxweed: See Toadflax.
flaxy: Like flax; flaxen. Sir M. Sandys.
flay: To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay anox; to flay the green earth.With her nails She 'll flay thy wolfish visage. Shak.
flayer: One who strips off the skin.
flea: To flay. [Obs.]He will be fleaced first And horse collars made of's skin. J.Fletcher.
flea-beetle: A small beetle of the family Halticidæ, of many species. Theyhave strong posterior legs and leap like fleas. The turnip flea-beetle (Phyllotreta vittata) and that of the grapevine (Graptoderachalybea) are common injurious species.
flea-louse: A jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ, of many species.That of the pear tree is Psylla pyri.
fleabane: One of various plants, supposed to have efficacy in drivingaway fleas. They belong, for the most part, to the genera Conyza,Erigeron, and Pulicaria.
fleagh: imp. of Fly.
fleak: A flake; a thread or twist. [Obs.]Little long fleaks or threads of hemp. Dr. H. More.
fleaking: A light covering of reeds, over which the main covering islaid, in thatching houses. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.
fleam: A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.;a kind of lancet. Fleam tooth, a tooth of a saw shaped like anisosceles triangle; a peg tooth. Knight.
fleamy: Bloody; clotted. [Obs. or Prov.]Foamy bubbling of a fleamy brain. Marston.
flear: See Fleer.
fleawort: An herb used in medicine (Plantago Psyllium), named from theshape of its seeds. Loudon.
fleche: A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salientangle pointing outward and open at the gorge.
fleck: A flake; also, a lock, as of wool. [Obs.] J. Martin.
flecker: To fleck. Johnson.
fleckless: Without spot or blame. [R.]My consnience will not count me fleckless. Tennyson.
flectional: Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection.A flectional word is a phrase in the bud. Earle.
flector: A flexor.
fled: imp. & p. p. of Flee.
fledge: Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly.Hfledge with wings. Milton.
fledgeling: A young bird just fledged.
flee: To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed orcowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from. This issometimes omitted, making the verb transitive.[He] cowardly fled, not having struck one stroke. Shak.Flee fornication. 1 Cor. vi. 18.So fled his enemies my warlike father. Shak.
fleece: The fine web of cotton or wool removed by the doffing knifefrom the cylinder of a carding machine. Fleece wool, wool shorn fromthe sheep.-- Golden fleece. See under Golden.
fleeceless: Without a fleece.
fleecer: One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery orfraund. Prynne.
fleecy: Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece. "Fleecyflocks." Prior.
fleen: Obs. pl. of Flea. Chaucer.
fleer: One who flees. Ld. Berners.
fleerer: One who fleers. Beau. & Fl.
fleeringly: In a fleering manner.
fleet: To slip on the whelps or the barrel of a capstan or windlass; -- said of a cable or hawser.
fleet-foot: Swift of foot. Shak.
fleeten: Fleeted or skimmed milk. [Obs.] Fleeten face, a face of thecolor of fleeten, i. e., blanched; hence, a coward. "You know whereyou are, you fleeten face." Beau. & Fl.
fleeting: Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as,the fleeting hours or moments.
fleetingly: In a fleeting manner; swiftly.
fleetings: A mixture of buttermilk and boiling whey; curds. [prov. Eng.]Wright.
fleetly: In a fleet manner; rapidly.
fleetness: Swiftness; rapidity; velocity; celerity; speed; as, thefleetness of a horse or of time.
fleigh: imp. of Fly. Chaucer.
fleme: To banish; to drive out; to expel. [Obs.] "Appetite flemethdiscretion." Chaucer.
flemer: One who, or that which, banishes or expels. [Obs.] Chaucer.
fleming: A native or inhabitant of Flanders.
flemish: Pertaining to Flanders, or the Flemings.-- n.
flench: Same as Flence.